WASHINGTON — President Trump declared on Tuesday that he was withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal, unraveling the signature foreign policy achievement of his predecessor Barack Obama, isolating the United States from its Western allies and sowing uncertainty before a risky nuclear negotiation with North Korea.

The decision, while long anticipated and widely telegraphed, leaves the 2015 agreement reached by seven countries after more than two years of grueling negotiations in tatters. The United States will now reimpose the stringent sanctions it imposed on Iran before the deal and is considering new penalties.

Iran said it will remain in the deal, which tightly restricted its nuclear ambitions for a decade or more in return for ending the sanctions that had crippled its economy.

So did France, Germany and Britain, raising the prospect of a trans-Atlantic clash as European companies face the return of American sanctions for doing business with Iran. China and Russia, also signatories to the deal, are likely to join Iran in accusing the United States of violating the accord.

Mr. Trump’s move could embolden hard-line forces in Iran, raising the threat of Iranian retaliation against Israel or the United States, fueling an arms race in the Middle East and fanning sectarian conflicts from Syria to Yemen.

The president, however, framed his decision as the fulfillment of a bedrock campaign promise and as the act of a dealmaker dissolving a fatally flawed agreement. He predicted his tough line with Iran would strengthen his hand as he prepared to meet North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to begin negotiating the surrender of his nuclear arsenal.

“This was a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made,” a grim-faced Mr. Trump said in an 11-minute address from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House. “It didn’t bring calm, it didn’t bring peace, and it never will.”

Mr. Trump’s announcement drew a chorus of opposition from European leaders, several of whom lobbied him feverishly not to pull out of the agreement and searched for fixes to it that would satisfy him.

It also drew a rare public rebuke by Mr. Obama, who said Mr. Trump’s withdrawal would leave the world less safe, confronting it with “a losing choice between a nuclear-armed Iran or another war in the Middle East.”


‘Exhibit A’: How McKinsey Got Entangled in a Bribery Case

The Itsy-Bitsy, Teenie-Weenie, Very Litigious Bikini

Mitch McConnell Got Everything He Wanted. But at What Cost?
The response from Iran itself, however, was muted. President Hassan Rouhani declared that the Iranians intended to abide by the terms of the deal, and he criticized Mr. Trump for his history of not honoring international treaties. Mr. Trump won strong backing from Saudi Arabia and Israel, whose leader, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, hailed him for a “historic move” and “courageous leadership.”


What Changes and What Remains in the Iran Nuclear Deal
The restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program under the deal could survive.

May 7, 2018
Three times previously, the president’s aides had persuaded him not to dismantle the Iran deal. But Mr. Trump made clear that his patience had worn thin, and with a new, more hawkish cohort of advisers — led by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the national security adviser, John R. Bolton — the president faced less internal resistance than earlier in his administration.

While Mr. Trump had long scorned the Iran deal, threatening repeatedly to rip it up during the 2016 presidential race, his impulse to act now was reinforced by what he views as the success of his policy toward North Korea. He has told aides and foreign leaders that his policy of maximum pressure had forced Mr. Kim to the bargaining table, and that a similar policy of overwhelming pressure would enable the United States to extract a better deal from Iran.

As Mr. Trump abandoned one diplomatic project, he accelerated another — announcing that Mr. Pompeo was flying to Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, to continue discussions with Mr. Kim about the upcoming summit meeting. He expressed hope that three Americans who are detained in the North would be released soon.

“The message to North Korea,” Mr. Bolton told reporters, “is the president wants a real deal.”

He rejected the suggestion that the United States could not be trusted to keep its agreements when political winds change. “Any nation reserves the right to correct a past mistake,” Mr. Bolton said, citing President George W. Bush’s decision to withdraw from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty in 2001.

The Trump administration, he said, would continue to work with Europeans to pressure the Iranians. He dismissed those who said the United States was on a path to war with Iran, though he did not present any new diplomatic initiatives. Another senior administration official acknowledged that there was no Plan B.

Months of intense negotiations with the Europeans to keep the accord in place collapsed over Mr. Trump’s insistence that the limits placed by the agreement on Iran’s nuclear fuel production were inadequate. Under the provisions of the deal, those limits, or “sunset clauses,” were to expire in 2030 — 15 years after the deal was signed.

Sign up for The Interpreter
Subscribe for original insights, commentary and discussions on the major news stories of the week, from columnists Max Fisher and Amanda Taub.

SIGN UP
As a result, the United States will reinstate all the sanctions it had waived as part of the nuclear accord, and it will impose additional economic penalties that are now being drawn up by the Treasury Department.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin declined on Tuesday to specify what additional sanctions the United States might impose, but he expressed confidence that they would still be powerful even if other American allies did not follow suit.

“We do not want to let Iran use the U.S. financial markets and financial system and transact in dollars until they agree that not only will they not have a nuclear weapon now, but we’ve put in provisions that they will never have one,” Mr. Mnuchin said.

In his announcement, Mr. Trump recited familiar arguments against the deal: that it does not address the threat of Iran’s ballistic missiles or its malign behavior in the region, and that the expiration dates for the sunset clauses open the door to an Iranian nuclear bomb down the road.

Even if Iran was in compliance, he said, it could “still be on the verge of a nuclear breakout in just a short period of time.” In fact, under the deal, the limits on Iran’s uranium enrichment and stockpiles of nuclear fuel mean that Iran would not be on the verge of a nuclear breakout until 2030.

Still, Mr. Trump said, the United States and its allies could not stop Iran from building a nuclear weapon “under the decaying and rotten structure of the current agreement.”

“The Iran deal is defective at its core,” he concluded.

Mr. Trump’s announcement capped a frantic four-day period in which American and European diplomats made a last-ditch effort to bridge their differences and preserve the agreement.

That effort began Friday, when Mr. Pompeo called his counterparts in Europe to tell them that Mr. Trump was planning to withdraw from the deal, but that he was trying to win a two-week reprieve for the United States and Europe to continue negotiating. Mr. Pompeo, people familiar with the talks said, suggested that he favored a so-called soft withdrawal, in which Mr. Trump would pull out of the deal but hold off on reimposing some of the sanctions.

The next day, the State Department’s chief negotiator, Brian H. Hook, consulted with European diplomats to try to break a deadlock over the sunset provision, under which the restrictions on Iran’s ability to produce nuclear fuel for civilian use expire after 15 years.

The Europeans had already agreed to a significant compromise: to reimpose sanctions if there were a determination that the Iranians were within 12 months of producing a nuclear weapon. But officials said that still did not satisfy Mr. Trump, and the Europeans were not willing to go any further.

By Monday, the White House began informing allies that Mr. Trump was going to withdraw from the deal and reimpose sanctions on oil and impose new sanctions against the Central Bank of Iran.

Under the financial sanctions, European companies will have 90 to 180 days to wind down their operations in Iran, or they will run afoul of the American banking system. The sanctions on oil will require European and Asian countries to reduce their imports from Iran.

Mr. Mnuchin insisted that the restrictions would not drive up oil prices because other suppliers would pick up the slack. “My expectation is not that oil prices go higher,” he said. “To a certain extent, some of this was already in the market on oil prices.”

Mr. Trump’s decision will test his already frayed relationship with European leaders. President Emmanuel Macron of France, whom the president welcomed with a state dinner two weeks ago, learned of his decision in a phone call with Mr. Trump on Tuesday morning. Later, he said in a post on Twitter that the European allies “regret” his decision.

“The international regime against nuclear proliferation is at stake,” he added.

In a joint statement, Mr. Macron, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain noted pointedly that the United Nations Security Council resolution endorsing the nuclear deal remained the “binding international legal framework for the resolution of the dispute.” That raises the possibility that the United States will be found to be in violation in the Security Council.

Few people were more stung by Mr. Trump’s decision than those who worked for Mr. Obama. Though he has moved methodically to dismantle his predecessor’s legacy, his reversal of the Iran deal was particularly painful, given the five years of effort that went into imposing sanctions, and the more than two-year-long negotiation led by Secretary of State John Kerry that yielded the accord.

“No rhetoric is required,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement. “The facts speak for themselves. Instead of building on unprecedented nonproliferation verification measures, this decision risks throwing them away and dragging the world back to the brink we faced a few years ago.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump declared on Tuesday that he was withdrawing from the Iran nuclear deal, unraveling the signature foreign policy achievement of his predecessor Barack Obama, isolating the United States from its Western allies and sowing uncertainty before a risky nuclear negotiation with North Korea.

The decision, while long anticipated and widely telegraphed, leaves the 2015 agreement reached by seven countries after more than two years of grueling negotiations in tatters. The United States will now reimpose the stringent sanctions it imposed on Iran before the deal and is considering new penalties.

Iran said it will remain in the deal, which tightly restricted its nuclear ambitions for a decade or more in return for ending the sanctions that had crippled its economy.

So did France, Germany and Britain, raising the prospect of a trans-Atlantic clash as European companies face the return of American sanctions for doing business with Iran. China and Russia, also signatories to the deal, are likely to join Iran in accusing the United States of violating the accord.
Mr. Trump’s move could embolden hard-line forces in Iran, raising the threat of Iranian retaliation against Israel or the United States, fueling an arms race in the Middle East and fanning sectarian conflicts from Syria to Yemen.

The president, however, framed his decision as the fulfillment of a bedrock campaign promise and as the act of a dealmaker dissolving a fatally flawed agreement. He predicted his tough line with Iran would strengthen his hand as he prepared to meet North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, to begin negotiating the surrender of his nuclear arsenal.

“This was a horrible one-sided deal that should have never, ever been made,” a grim-faced Mr. Trump said in an 11-minute address from the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House. “It didn’t bring calm, it didn’t bring peace, and it never will.”

[Read the full transcript of President Trump’s remarks.]

Mr. Trump’s announcement drew a chorus of opposition from European leaders, several of whom lobbied him feverishly not to pull out of the agreement and searched for fixes to it that would satisfy him.

It also drew a rare public rebuke by Mr. Obama, who said Mr. Trump’s withdrawal would leave the world less safe, confronting it with “a losing choice between a nuclear-armed Iran or another war in the Middle East.”

The response from Iran itself, however, was muted. President Hassan Rouhani declared that the Iranians intended to abide by the terms of the deal, and he criticized Mr. Trump for his history of not honoring international treaties. Mr. Trump won strong backing from Saudi Arabia and Israel, whose leader, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, hailed him for a “historic move” and “courageous leadership.”


What Changes and What Remains in the Iran Nuclear Deal
The restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program under the deal could survive.

Three times previously, the president’s aides had persuaded him not to dismantle the Iran deal. But Mr. Trump made clear that his patience had worn thin, and with a new, more hawkish cohort of advisers — led by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and the national security adviser, John R. Bolton — the president faced less internal resistance than earlier in his administration.

While Mr. Trump had long scorned the Iran deal, threatening repeatedly to rip it up during the 2016 presidential race, his impulse to act now was reinforced by what he views as the success of his policy toward North Korea. He has told aides and foreign leaders that his policy of maximum pressure had forced Mr. Kim to the bargaining table, and that a similar policy of overwhelming pressure would enable the United States to extract a better deal from Iran.

As Mr. Trump abandoned one diplomatic project, he accelerated another — announcing that Mr. Pompeo was flying to Pyongyang, the capital of North Korea, to continue discussions with Mr. Kim about the upcoming summit meeting. He expressed hope that three Americans who are detained in the North would be released soon.

“The message to North Korea,” Mr. Bolton told reporters, “is the president wants a real deal.”

He rejected the suggestion that the United States could not be trusted to keep its agreements when political winds change. “Any nation reserves the right to correct a past mistake,” Mr. Bolton said, citing President George W. Bush’s decision to withdraw from the Antiballistic Missile Treaty in 2001.

The Trump administration, he said, would continue to work with Europeans to pressure the Iranians. He dismissed those who said the United States was on a path to war with Iran, though he did not present any new diplomatic initiatives. Another senior administration official acknowledged that there was no Plan B.

Months of intense negotiations with the Europeans to keep the accord in place collapsed over Mr. Trump’s insistence that the limits placed by the agreement on Iran’s nuclear fuel production were inadequate. Under the provisions of the deal, those limits, or “sunset clauses,” were to expire in 2030 — 15 years after the deal was signed.

 for The Interpreter
Subscribe for original insights, commentary and discussions on the major news stories of the week, from columnists Max Fisher and Amanda Taub.
As a result, the United States will reinstate all the sanctions it had waived as part of the nuclear accord, and it will impose additional economic penalties that are now being drawn up by the Treasury Department.

Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin declined on Tuesday to specify what additional sanctions the United States might impose, but he expressed confidence that they would still be powerful even if other American allies did not follow suit.

“We do not want to let Iran use the U.S. financial markets and financial system and transact in dollars until they agree that not only will they not have a nuclear weapon now, but we’ve put in provisions that they will never have one,” Mr. Mnuchin said.

In his announcement, Mr. Trump recited familiar arguments against the deal: that it does not address the threat of Iran’s ballistic missiles or its malign behavior in the region, and that the expiration dates for the sunset clauses open the door to an Iranian nuclear bomb down the road.

Even if Iran was in compliance, he said, it could “still be on the verge of a nuclear breakout in just a short period of time.” In fact, under the deal, the limits on Iran’s uranium enrichment and stockpiles of nuclear fuel mean that Iran would not be on the verge of a nuclear breakout until 2030.

Still, Mr. Trump said, the United States and its allies could not stop Iran from building a nuclear weapon “under the decaying and rotten structure of the current agreement.”

“The Iran deal is defective at its core,” he concluded.

Mr. Trump’s announcement capped a frantic four-day period in which American and European diplomats made a last-ditch effort to bridge their differences and preserve the agreement.


That effort began Friday, when Mr. Pompeo called his counterparts in Europe to tell them that Mr. Trump was planning to withdraw from the deal, but that he was trying to win a two-week reprieve for the United States and Europe to continue negotiating. Mr. Pompeo, people familiar with the talks said, suggested that he favored a so-called soft withdrawal, in which Mr. Trump would pull out of the deal but hold off on reimposing some of the sanctions.

The next day, the State Department’s chief negotiator, Brian H. Hook, consulted with European diplomats to try to break a deadlock over the sunset provision, under which the restrictions on Iran’s ability to produce nuclear fuel for civilian use expire after 15 years.

The Europeans had already agreed to a significant compromise: to reimpose sanctions if there were a determination that the Iranians were within 12 months of producing a nuclear weapon. But officials said that still did not satisfy Mr. Trump, and the Europeans were not willing to go any further.

By Monday, the White House began informing allies that Mr. Trump was going to withdraw from the deal and reimpose sanctions on oil and impose new sanctions against the Central Bank of Iran.

Under the financial sanctions, European companies will have 90 to 180 days to wind down their operations in Iran, or they will run afoul of the American banking system. The sanctions on oil will require European and Asian countries to reduce their imports from Iran.

Mr. Mnuchin insisted that the restrictions would not drive up oil prices because other suppliers would pick up the slack. “My expectation is not that oil prices go higher,” he said. “To a certain extent, some of this was already in the market on oil prices.”

Mr. Trump’s decision will test his already frayed relationship with European leaders. President Emmanuel Macron of France, whom the president welcomed with a state dinner two weeks ago, learned of his decision in a phone call with Mr. Trump on Tuesday morning. Later, he said in a post on Twitter that the European allies “regret” his decision.


“The international regime against nuclear proliferation is at stake,” he added.

In a joint statement, Mr. Macron, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain noted pointedly that the United Nations Security Council resolution endorsing the nuclear deal remained the “binding international legal framework for the resolution of the dispute.” That raises the possibility that the United States will be found to be in violation in the Security Council.

Few people were more stung by Mr. Trump’s decision than those who worked for Mr. Obama. Though he has moved methodically to dismantle his predecessor’s legacy, his reversal of the Iran deal was particularly painful, given the five years of effort that went into imposing sanctions, and the more than two-year-long negotiation led by Secretary of State John Kerry that yielded the accord.

“No rhetoric is required,” Mr. Kerry said in a statement. “The facts speak for themselves. Instead of building on unprecedented nonproliferation verification measures, this decision risks throwing them away and dragging the world back to the brink we faced a few years ago.”
Just over a decade ago, Donald J. Trump was locked in conflict with a group of apartment owners who had taken control of the condominium board at his new glass tower across from the United Nations. Faced with accusations of financial impropriety and an affront to his authority, Mr. Trump turned to Michael D. Cohen, a former personal injury lawyer who helped run a taxi fleet.

Mr. Cohen did not seem to have extensive expertise in the arcana of New York City condo rules. But he had something Mr. Trump seemed to value more: devotion to the Trump brand. He had already purchased a number of Trump properties and had persuaded his parents, in-laws and a business partner to buy apartments in Mr. Trump’s flashy new development, Trump World Tower.

Plus, he had read Mr. Trump’s book “The Art of the Deal.” Twice.

With Mr. Cohen’s help, Mr. Trump regained control of the board, orchestrating a coup that culminated in a standoff between his security detail and private guards hired by the disgruntled owners, according to people who were there. Details of the dispute’s resolution are secret because of a confidentiality agreement, but Mr. Cohen said that his task was “masterfully accomplished.”

He went on to serve as a key confidant for Mr. Trump, with an office near the boss at Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue. Officially, his title was special counsel, but he appears to have served more as a kind of personal arm-twister. If anyone crossed Mr. Trump or stood in his way, Mr. Cohen, who was known to sometimes carry a licensed pistol in an ankle holster, would cajole, bully or threaten a lawsuit, according to a half-dozen people who dealt with him over the years.

“If somebody does something Mr. Trump doesn’t like, I do everything in my power to resolve it to Mr. Trump’s benefit,” Mr. Cohen once said during an interview with ABC News. “If you do something wrong, I’m going to come at you, grab you by the neck, and I’m not going to let you go until I’m finished.”

Since Mr. Trump became president, his need for loyal foot soldiers like Mr. Cohen has never been greater. But instead of helping his longtime employer navigate F.B.I. and congressional investigations into whether his campaign colluded with Russia in the 2016 election, Mr. Cohen now appears to be outside the Trump inner circle, a man on the defensive.

The House Intelligence Committee has summoned him for questioning in its inquiry. (Mr. Cohen’s lawyer in Washington said his client was cooperating.) He is under scrutiny by the F.B.I., along with other Trump associates, in the Russia investigation. An unverified dossier prepared by a retired British spy and published this year said that Mr. Cohen had met overseas with Kremlin officials and other Russian operatives, which he has denied. (He once posted on Twitter, “The #RussianDossier is WRONG!”)

He has also attracted attention for playing a role in a failed effort to open a back channel for peace negotiations between Russia and Ukraine, where his wife’s family is from.

After years of loyal service to Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen, 50, expected to be offered a senior administration post, according to four people who know him, speaking on the condition of anonymity because they feared angering Mr. Cohen.

He was given no such job.

On the networking site LinkedIn, Mr. Cohen refers to himself as the “personal attorney to President Donald J. Trump,” but his precise role and current relationship with the president is unclear, and he would not elaborate. The White House did not respond to requests for comment.In recent weeks, another lawyer, Marc E. Kasowitz, seems to have largely taken Mr. Cohen’s place as Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer.

“Clearly my life has changed since Trump became POTUS and I accepted the role as personal attorney to the president,” Mr. Cohen wrote in a text message in response to a question from a New York Times reporter last week. “This change has come with both many pros and cons.”

And so Mr. Cohen has found himself increasingly relegated to the role of second-string defender. He has chastised critics, including Snoop Dogg (“There’s so much more that Snoop can do for this country”) and Johnny Depp (“Way to use your notoriety for good, Captain Jack-Ass!”).
Like Mr. Trump, he lashes out at critics on Twitter, where he also spends quite a bit of time fighting with anonymous critics, or trolls — calling them “haters” and “idiots,” sometimes within the comment threads of Mr. Trump’s tweets.

In one such exchange last week, a Twitter user named Corvetteman, who has 88 followers and a profile photograph of an orange cat, called Mr. Cohen “a joke.” Mr. Cohen replied: “Reminder...@realDonaldTrump won! Wake up #hater.”

Ascent to Trump Tower
Mr. Cohen was already a wealthy man with his own small real estate empire by the time he joined Mr. Trump’s orbit. Even so, his ascent from a lawyer handling personal injury cases out of an office shared with his taxi company — first in Manhattan, then in Queens — to the 26th floor of Trump Tower is a remarkable New York story.

Mr. Cohen comes from a long line of doctors and lawyers. His father survived the Holocaust in Poland and went on to become a physician on Long Island. An uncle close to the Cohen family, Morton W. Levine, is a doctor and businessman. He ran summer weight-loss and fitness camps for children decades ago and has long owned a Brooklyn catering hall, El Caribe, a popular site for weddings and retirement parties that was a meeting spot in the 1980s and 1990s for Italian and Russian mobsters. (Dr. Levine was never charged with any wrongdoing.)

In an interview, Mr. Cohen said he became a lawyer to appease one of his grandmothers, who threatened to leave him out of her will if he did not. “You don’t really have any money,” he said he replied, “to which she slapped me across my face.”

He saw himself as an entrepreneurial risk taker from an early age.

While a student at American University in Washington, he said he imported luxury cars into the United States. He also invested in a casino boat that went bust and helped his family organize an ethanol business in Ukraine that failed.
In 1992, he began working as a personal injury lawyer in New York and eventually opened his own practice. He and his family also began buying taxi medallions, purchased through companies with names like Sir Michael Hacking Corp and Mad Dog Cab Corp. He and his wife, Laura, acquired more than 30 New York City taxi medallions, once worth millions of dollars, and he owned 22 more in Chicago, according to public records.

He also once had his own political ambitions. He ran for the New York City Council as a Republican in 2003 and lost, and later flirted briefly with running for the New York State Senate, but dropped out after a month.

Several of the men he associated with in business dealings over the years faced legal problems of one sort or another. His boss at his first law firm, a personal injury practice, pleaded guilty to bribery in an insurance scheme. His father-in-law, who once also owned taxi medallions, pleaded guilty to tax-related charges more than two decades ago. Two of his partners in the taxi business have paid hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines and settlements for various violations. Mr. Cohen, though, has avoided legal troubles.

From 2011 to 2014, he purchased four small apartment buildings in Manhattan and sold them for a total of $32 million. In 2015, he paid $58 million for a seven-story apartment building on the Upper East Side.

Those who have known him for years said Mr. Cohen had a penchant for luxury, like Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen was married at the Pierre, a legacy luxury hotel overlooking Central Park, drove a Porsche in college and at one point owned a Bentley.

It was his purchase of blocks of apartments in Trump buildings starting around 2001 that seems to have caught Mr. Trump’s eye. At the time of the 2006 board dispute, Mr. Cohen was overseeing the finishing touches on his new apartment at Trump Park Avenue. Not long after the dispute was resolved, Mr. Cohen said, he was summoned to Trump Tower and offered a job.
At the time, he was a partner at the Phillips Nizer LLP law firm. He said that he immediately accepted Mr. Trump’s offer and never returned to his old office, where he had worked for about a year. Instead, he moved into an office previously used by Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka Trump.

Explaining his relationship with Mr. Trump, Mr. Cohen said in an interview last month with The Times, “When he finds someone who he considers capable, does a great job and accomplishes the task, he tends to go back to that person again and again and again.” He added, “He’s comfortable with people who he deems worthy.”

The scope of Mr. Cohen’s job with Mr. Trump is not clear. After a decade of working for the Trump Organization, he has left little public record of his accomplishments. An effort to develop Trump-branded golf communities in New Jersey and in Fresno, Calif., floundered, along with a mixed martial arts venture with a Russian fighter as the headliner. Mr. Cohen did some scouting and groundwork for possible Trump condominium towers in the former Soviet republics of Georgia and Kazakhstan, but those deals never materialized.

He has declined to discuss the details of what he did at the company, and the Trump Organization did not respond to requests for comment. Some people who worked with him also declined to describe Mr. Cohen’s tenure, with several of them saying they feared being sued.

Mr. Cohen’s younger brother, Bryan Cohen, said he was a different person than his public appearances might suggest, describing him more as a father figure growing up in the Five Towns section of Long Island.

“I believe that my brother represents the type of person that the show depicted that Trump liked and appreciated,” Bryan Cohen said. “He had a combination of smarts, street smarts, and those things are not mutually exclusive. He’s successful, aggressive. That seemingly was a winning combination on the early seasons of ‘The Apprentice.’”

Throughout it all, Michael Cohen has clearly idolized his boss.

He has described Mr. Trump as “our patriarch” and “the greatest deal maker of this century.” He has said that he patterned his life after “The Art of the Deal,” and he shares Mr. Trump’s taste for boxy suits and long silk ties. He even sounds a bit like Mr. Trump, with a punchy edge to his New York accent.

Life on the Outside
Mr. Cohen said in January that he planned to leave his job with the Trump Organization to avoid any perception of a conflict of interest as one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers.

He has recently been spending time in Washington. The Republican National Committee named him to its finance leadership team this year, and in April, the international law firm and Washington lobbying powerhouse Squire Patton Boggs formed a “strategic alliance” with Mr. Cohen’s law practice.

Several people with knowledge of Mr. Cohen’s involvement with Squire Patton Boggs said he had been brought on as a sort of rainmaker because of his business contacts in the United States and abroad. He will operate out of the firm’s New York office and will be able to take advantage of its global reach to help his own clients.

He is also conferring with his lawyer, Stephen M. Ryan, of the firm McDermott, Will & Emery, to prepare for his appearance before the House committee. Its Senate counterpart is conducting its own Russia inquiry, with which Mr. Cohen is cooperating, the lawyer said, but that panel has not called Mr. Cohen for questioning.

Mr. Cohen is still working hard for Mr. Trump. In recent weeks, he was soliciting donations for the president’s victory fund, a joint fund-raising effort between Mr. Trump and the Republican National Committee. “Proud to say I raised over $500K today,” he said in a recent text message. He later said preliminary figures indicated that he had brought in about $2 million.

At a $35,000-a-plate fund-raiser last week at the Trump International Hotel in Washington, Mr. Trump acknowledged the efforts of his former employee, whom he said he had not seen in a month.

“Michael is a great lawyer, loyal, a wonderful person, talented, loves being on television,” Mr. Trump said, according to an audio recording of the event. “I miss you, man,” he added.
The latest criminal charges against Michael D. Cohen, President Trump’s longtime fixer, for lying about a Moscow hotel deal raised questions of whether Mr. Cohen created new legal risks for Mr. Trump or his family members, possibly by contradicting what they told investigators about the same project.

The answer, at least according to the president’s lawyers and people close to his family, is no. Although Mr. Trump’s lawyers have long worried that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is trying to catch Mr. Trump in a lie, they said Mr. Cohen’s new account of the Trump Organization’s abortive hotel project in Moscow essentially matches what Mr. Trump himself stated in written answers delivered to prosecutors just nine days ago.

Mr. Cohen might have lied to the authorities about aspects of the deal, as the complaint charges, they said, but the president did not.

“The president said there was a proposal, it was discussed with Cohen, there was a nonbinding letter of intent and it didn’t go beyond that,” said Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of Mr. Trump’s lawyers, who with others negotiated the president’s responses to Mr. Mueller’s questions for nearly a year. He said prosecutors did not raise certain details that Mr. Cohen now says he misled Congress about — including how long the hotel project stayed alive — and that the president did not volunteer those details.

According to the new documents released by the special counsel, Mr. Cohen lied when he told Congress last year that he had talked to Mr. Trump about the project only three times and that the proposal died in January 2016 — before the first primary in the race for the Republican presidential nomination. He also concealed his interactions with Russian officials and the fact that he asked Mr. Trump to travel to Russia to promote the deal because, he said, he wanted to support Mr. Trump’s “political messaging.”

Mr. Giuliani refused to disclose Mr. Mueller’s precise questions to Mr. Trump about the deal or exactly how the president responded. He said only that Mr. Trump and the Trump Organization, his company, provided the prosecutors “with every document about this from the beginning,” adding, “That’s the only reason they know about it.”

Notes by the president’s lawyers this year show that prosecutors were trying to scrutinize Mr. Trump’s business dealings in Russia during the campaign, including what he knew about the hotel deal that Mr. Cohen was pursuing with Felix Sater, another business associate.

“What interaction and communication did you have with Michael Cohen, Felix Sater and others, including foreign nationals, regarding real estate developments in Russia during the period of the campaign?” Mr. Mueller’s team asked in a meeting with Mr. Trump’s lawyers, according to the notes.

Mr. Cohen’s new account of the hotel deal will inevitably be compared not only to the president’s, but also to those of Donald Trump Jr., his eldest son, who testified repeatedly before congressional committees last year about that project and other matters. The complaint states that Mr. Cohen misled Congress about the fact that he had briefed Trump family members about the project. Although the family members were not named, a person familiar with the situation said Mr. Cohen discussed the deal with Donald Trump Jr. and Ivanka Trump.

Testifying before the Senate Judiciary Committee in September 2017, the younger Mr. Trump said that he was only “peripherally aware” of the proposed venture to build a new Moscow hotel bearing the Trump name. Most of what he knew about it, he said, he had learned recently while preparing to testify. He told the committee that Mr. Cohen pursued the project in 2015 and told the House Intelligence Committee that the deal fell dormant as of June 2016 — an accurate date, according to Thursday’s court documents.

Lawyers for Ms. Trump and her brother declined to comment on their interactions with Mr. Cohen about the project. But people close to the Trump family said that while emails indicate that both of them were aware of Mr. Cohen’s efforts to get it off the ground in 2015, their involvement appears to end in January 2016. If Mr. Cohen tried to continue with the project after that, these people added, they did not know.

The president’s critics will also inevitably seek to learn whether he knew that Mr. Cohen, then still a trusted aide, falsely testified to Congress last year. As they continue to do, Mr. Trump’s lawyers then closely monitored what witnesses like Mr. Cohen were telling the authorities through joint defense agreements with their lawyers.

But even if the president knew that Mr. Cohen misled Congress, legal experts said, he is not in legal jeopardy as long as he did not ask Mr. Cohen to lie. And there is no allegation that he did so.

The latest complaint, on its face, seems less worrisome for the president than the previous one lodged against Mr. Cohen in August, said Chuck Rosenberg, a former United States attorney and senior F.B.I. official. In that case, Mr. Cohen directly implicated Mr. Trump in a crime, saying he instructed him to pay money to two women to cover up a potential sex scandal that he feared could endanger his presidential candidacy. Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations and a host of other charges for which he has yet to be sentenced.

The president lashed out fiercely at Mr. Cohen on Thursday, calling him a “weak” prevaricator who concocted a false tale about the hotel deal in hopes of winning a lesser punishment. That charge conflicts with Mr. Giuliani’s assertion that Mr. Cohen and Mr. Trump have now given prosecutors much the same account.

Asked how he reconciled the seeming contradiction, Mr. Giuliani blamed Mr. Cohen.

“He has so many different versions of the same stories, so by definition he is a liar and we can’t trust him,” Mr. Giuliani said. “Given the fact that he’s a liar, I can’t tell you what he’s lying about.”

WASHINGTON — A business associate of President Trump promised in 2015 to engineer a real estate deal with the aid of the president of Russia, Vladimir V. Putin, that he said would help Mr. Trump win the presidency.

The associate, Felix Sater, wrote a series of emails to Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen, in which he boasted about his ties to Mr. Putin. He predicted that building a Trump Tower in Moscow would highlight Mr. Trump’s savvy negotiating skills and be a political boon to his candidacy.

“Our boy can become president of the USA and we can engineer it,” Mr. Sater wrote in an email. “I will get all of Putins team to buy in on this, I will manage this process.”
The emails show that, from the earliest months of Mr. Trump’s campaign, some of his associates viewed close ties with Moscow as a political advantage. Those ties are now under investigation by the Justice Department and multiple congressional committees.

American intelligence agencies have concluded that the Russian government interfered with the 2016 presidential election to try to help Mr. Trump. Investigators want to know whether anyone on Mr. Trump’s team was part of that process.

Mr. Sater, a Russian immigrant, said he had lined up financing for the Trump Tower deal with VTB Bank, a Russian bank that was under American sanctions for involvement in Moscow’s efforts to undermine democracy in Ukraine. In another email, Mr. Sater envisioned a ribbon-cutting ceremony in Moscow.

“I will get Putin on this program and we will get Donald elected,” Mr. Sater wrote.

Mr. Sater said he was eager to show video clips to his Russian contacts of instances of Mr. Trump speaking glowingly about Russia, and said he would arrange for Mr. Putin to praise Mr. Trump’s business acumen.

“If he says it we own this election,” Mr. Sater wrote. “Americas most difficult adversary agreeing that Donald is a good guy to negotiate.”

There is no evidence in the emails that Mr. Sater delivered on his promises, and one email suggests that Mr. Sater overstated his Russian ties. In January 2016, Mr. Cohen wrote to Mr. Putin’s spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, asking for help restarting the Trump Tower project, which had stalled. But Mr. Cohen did not appear to have Mr. Peskov’s direct email, and instead wrote to a general inbox for press inquiries.

The project never got government permits or financing, and died weeks later.

“To be clear, the Trump Organization has never had any real estate holdings or interests in Russia,” the Trump Organization said Monday in a statement. Mr. Trump, however signed a nonbinding “letter of intent” for the project in 2015. Mr. Cohen said he discussed the project with Mr. Trump three times.

The Trump Organization on Monday turned over emails to the House Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russian meddling in the presidential election and whether anyone in Mr. Trump’s campaign was involved. Some of the emails were obtained by The Times.
The emails obtained by The Times do not include any responses from Mr. Cohen to Mr. Sater’s messages.

In a statement on Monday that was also provided to Congress, Mr. Cohen suggested that he viewed Mr. Sater’s comments as puffery. “He has sometimes used colorful language and has been prone to ‘salesmanship,’” the statement said. “I ultimately determined that the proposal was not feasible and never agreed to make a trip to Russia.”

The emails obtained by The Times make no mention of Russian efforts to damage Hillary Clinton’s campaign or the hacking of Democrats’ emails. Mr. Trump, who began praising Mr. Putin years before the presidential campaign, has said there was no collusion with Russian officials. Previously released emails, however, revealed that his campaign was willing to receive damaging information about Mrs. Clinton from Russian sources.

Mr. Sater said it would be “pretty cool to get a USA President elected” and said he desired to be the ambassador to the Bahamas. “That my friend is the home run I want out of this,” he wrote.

Mr. Sater — a former F.B.I. informant who is famous for having once smashed a martini glass stem into another man’s face — has maintained a relationship with Mr. Cohen over the years. The two men have spent decades operating in the world of New York commercial real estate, where the sources of funding can be murky.

Through his lawyer, Mr. Sater declined on Monday to address why he thought the deal would be a political win for Mr. Trump. He said he brought the project to Mr. Cohen in late 2015, but that he was not working for the Trump Organization and “would not have been compensated” by them.

“During the course of our communications over several months, I routinely expressed my enthusiasm regarding what a tremendous opportunity this was for the Trump Organization,” Mr. Sater said.

Mr. Sater was a broker for the Trump Organization for several years, typically paid to deliver real estate deals. A company he worked for, Bayrock, played a role in financing the Trump SoHo Hotel in New York. Mr. Sater and Mr. Cohen even worked together on a peace plan for Ukraine and Russia that they sought to get in front of Mr. Trump’s national security adviser earlier this year.

As a broker for the Trump Organization, Mr. Sater had an incentive to overstate his business-making acumen. He presents himself in his emails as so influential in Russia that he helped arrange a 2006 trip that Mr. Trump’s daughter, Ivanka, took to Moscow.

“I arranged for Ivanka to sit in Putins private chair at his desk and office in the Kremlin,” he said.

Ms. Trump said she had no involvement in the discussions about the Moscow deal other than to recommend possible architects. In a statement, she said that during the 2006 trip she took “a brief tour of Red Square and the Kremlin” as a tourist. She said it is possible she sat in Mr. Putin’s chair during that tour but she did not recall it. She said she has not seen or spoken to Mr. Sater since 2010. “I have never met President Vladimir Putin,” she said.

The Times reported earlier this year on the plan for a Trump Tower in Moscow, which never materialized. On Sunday, The Washington Post reported the existence of the correspondence between Mr. Sater and Mr. Cohen, but not its content.

Spokespeople for the House Intelligence Committee had no comment on the documents.

Mr. Cohen has denied any wrongdoing, and the Trump Organization turned over the emails to the House as part of his ongoing cooperation with the investigation.

Earlier this month, Mr. Cohen’s lawyer, Stephen M. Ryan, wrote a letter to congressional investigators that contained what he said was a point-by-point refutation of a dossier suggesting that Mr. Cohen colluded with Russian operatives. That dossier, compiled by a retired British spy and briefed to Mr. Trump during the transition, was published online early this year.

“We do not believe that the committee should give credence to or perpetuate any of the allegations relating to Mr. Cohen unless the committee can obtain independent and reliable corroboration,” Mr. Ryan wrote.
President Trump’s personal lawyer on Monday walked back the timeline he had offered a day earlier on when negotiations ended with Russian officials about a proposed Trump Tower project in Moscow, calling his comments “hypothetical” and not intended to convey facts.

The latest statement from the lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was described as a clarification of remarks he made to  in an interview on Sunday, as well as other remarks he made in interviews on Sunday television news shows.

Mr. Giuliani originally quoted Mr. Trump as telling him the negotiations over a Moscow skyscraper continued through “the day I won.” He also said that the president recalled “fleeting conversations” about the deal after the Trump Organization signed a letter of intent to pursue it.

The confusion centers on how long Mr. Trump may have known of — or was apprised of — discussions about the Moscow tower proposal, which were led by his former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen.

The timeline of negotiations for the skyscraper is important because it shows that Mr. Trump’s company was involved in talks with an American adversary for a business deal through the general election, as he was demanding that President Barack Obama lift sanctions against Russia and urging its government to reveal emails from Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential nominee.

Even before the uproar over his comments, Mr. Giuliani told The Times that there were no call logs or annotations about conversations on the Moscow project that would provide accurate dates, and he described the president’s legal team as at Mr. Cohen’s “mercy.” As a result, he said, there could have been discussions to emerge later that Mr. Trump did not immediately recall.

On Sunday, Mr. Giuliani told The Times that Mr. Trump had said the discussions around the proposed tower were “going on from the day I announced to the day I won.” In television interviews the same day, he said that discussions about the tower might have continued up until November 2016 — the month Mr. Trump was elected president.

But on Monday, Mr. Giuliani, in a widely issued statement, said that he was making hypothetical remarks.

“My recent statements about discussions during the 2016 campaign between Michael Cohen and then-candidate Donald Trump about a potential Trump Moscow ‘project’ were hypothetical and not based on conversations I had with the president,” Mr. Giuliani said.
“My comments did not represent the actual timing or circumstances of any such discussions,” he added. “The point is that the proposal was in the earliest stage and did not advance beyond a free nonbinding letter of intent.”

Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty late last year to lying to Congress about the duration of the Moscow proposal; he had indicated initially that it stopped in January 2016.

It was not the first time Mr. Giuliani has reversed himself in his comments about issues related to the investigation of Russian election interference that is being led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.

Last week, Mr. Giuliani backtracked from another surprising assertion that left open the possibility that Trump campaign aides might have coordinated with Russia in its election interference in 2016.

“There was no collusion by President Trump in any way, shape or form,” Mr. Giuliani said in a statement on Thursday, reiterating the president’s longstanding defense against accusations that his campaign secretly coordinated with Moscow to help swing the election. “Likewise, I have no knowledge of any collusion by any of the thousands of people who worked on the campaign.”

He added, referring to dised conspiracy theories that the president and his allies have long cited, “The only knowledge I have in this regard is the collusion of the Clinton campaign with Russia, which has so far been ignored.”

A day earlier, Mr. Giuliani stopped short of defending Trump campaign aides, drawing speculation that he might have inside knowledge of possible coordination with Russia.
“I never said there was no collusion between the campaign or between people in the campaign,” he told CNN. He added: “I said the president of the United States. There is not a single bit of evidence the president of the United States committed the only crime you could commit here, conspired with the Russians to hack” the Democratic National Committee.

When Mr. Giuliani was hired last April as the public face of Mr. Trump’s legal team, it was part of a strategy to be more aggressive in fighting back against Mr. Mueller. Some of the president’s closest allies believe that Mr. Giuliani was effective in helping change public opinion about the special counsel investigation — at least to some extent.

Since then, however, Mr. Giuliani’s statements have included criticisms of the federal prosecutor’s office in Manhattan that he once led. That office, in the Justice Department’s Southern District of New York, last year secured guilty pleas by Mr. Cohen to a series of crimes, including a campaign finance-related charge that implicated Mr. Trump.

Several people close to Mr. Trump have grown exasperated with Mr. Giuliani’s public appearances. They also expressed concern that he is increasing prosecutors’ anger with the president and potentially creating a misimpression about the Trump Tower project in Moscow.

Mr. Giuliani’s appearances on the Sunday news shows followed an article on the website Buzzfeed last Friday, which reported that Mr. Mueller had amassed evidence that Mr. Trump “personally directed” Mr. Cohen to lie to Congress about the amount of time that the Moscow proposal was active.

The special counsel’s office made the rare move of issuing a public statement about the article after it was published, calling it “inaccurate.”

A person familiar with the discussions said that Mr. Trump’s lawyers sent a letter to the special counsel earlier in the day on Friday asking for a clarification. By then, several Democrats had discussed the prospect of moving ahead with impeachment proceedings if the article was true, creating a heightened degree of pressure on Mr. Mueller’s team.
Democrats in Congress are preparing for the possibility of an impeachment case against Mr. Trump once Mr. Mueller completes his work. In the meantime, Mr. Cohen is scheduled to testify before Congress in an open hearing on Feb. 7.

Since that date was announced, Mr. Trump has repeatedly urged prosecutors and the media to investigate Mr. Cohen’s family. Lanny Davis, a spokesman for Mr. Cohen, has said his client fears for his safety and the safety of his family amid those threats.

WASHINGTON — The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has subpoenaed the Trump Organization in recent weeks to turn over documents, including some related to Russia, according to two people briefed on the matter. The order is the first known instance of the special counsel demanding records directly related to President Trump’s businesses, bringing the investigation closer to the president.

The breadth of the subpoena was not clear, nor was it clear why Mr. Mueller issued it instead of simply asking for the documents from the company, an umbrella organization that encompasses Mr. Trump’s business ventures. Mr. Mueller ordered the Trump Organization to hand over records related to Russia and other topics he is investigating, the people said.

The subpoena is the latest indication that the investigation, which Mr. Trump’s lawyers once regularly assured him would be completed by now, will continue for at least several more months. Word of the subpoena came as Mr. Mueller appears to be broadening his inquiry to examine the role foreign money may have played in funding Mr. Trump’s political activities. In recent weeks, Mr. Mueller’s investigators have questioned witnesses, including an adviser to the United Arab Emirates, about the flow of Emirati money into the United States.

Mr. Mueller has already indicted 13 Russians and three companies accused of meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign, and on Thursday, the Trump administration included them in sanctions it leveled at Moscow as punishment for interference in the campaign and “malicious cyberattacks.”
The Trump Organization has typically complied with requests from congressional investigators for documents for their own inquiries into Russian election interference, and there was no indication the company planned to fight Mr. Mueller’s order.

“Since July 2017, we have advised the public that the Trump Organization is fully cooperative with all investigations, including the special counsel, and is responding to their requests,” said Alan S. Futerfas, a lawyer representing the Trump Organization. “This is old news and our assistance and cooperation with the various investigations remains the same today.”

The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, reiterated during her daily briefing that the president was cooperating with the special counsel inquiry and referred further questions to the Trump Organization.

There are few other publicly known examples of Mr. Mueller using subpoenas. In January, he ordered the president’s former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, to appear before a grand jury. Mr. Mueller dropped the subpoena after Mr. Bannon agreed to be interviewed by investigators.
Mr. Mueller could run afoul of a line the president has warned him not to cross. Though it is not clear how much of the subpoena is related to Mr. Trump’s business outside ties to Russia, Mr. Trump said in an interview with  in July that the special counsel would be crossing a red line if he looked into his family’s finances beyond any relationship with Russia. The president declined to say how he would respond if he concluded that the special counsel had crossed that line.

Mr. Trump campaigned as a businessman whose deal-making prowess would translate directly into reforming Washington. The argument helped propel him to the White House, but the Trump Organization has been a magnet for criticism from Democrats, ethics watchdogs and some Republicans, who expressed concern that he remained vulnerable to conflicts of interest because he did not separate from the company.

Before Mr. Trump was sworn in, he pledged that he would stay uninvolved in his businesses while in office but insisted it would be too punitive for his business partners for him to divest from the company altogether.

Among the Trump Organization’s holdings are golf clubs, hotels and licensing agreements for the use of the Trump name on properties and other products. While its holdings are complex, the company has always been run like a small, family-owned business; Mr. Trump brought in his three eldest children to help run the enterprise.

The Trump Organization is not publicly held, making it difficult to determine where it receives its money and invests it. The company has said that it never had real estate holdings in Russia, but witnesses recently interviewed by Mr. Mueller have been asked about a possible real estate deal in Moscow.

In 2015, a longtime business associate of Mr. Trump’s, Felix Sater, emailed Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Michael Cohen, at his Trump Organization account claiming he had ties to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and that building a Trump Tower in Moscow would help Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. Mr. Trump signed a nonbinding letter of intent for the project in 2015 and discussed it at least three times with Mr. Cohen.

A revealing comment about Russia by Eric Trump, the president’s middle son, also drew scrutiny when it emerged last year. James Dodson, a longtime golf writer from North Carolina, said offhand in a radio interview that Eric Trump, who oversees the golf courses for the Trump Organization, told him in 2013 that the Trumps relied on Russian investors to back their golf clubs. Eric Trump has denied those remarks.

Mr. Mueller was appointed in May to investigate whether Mr. Trump’s campaign colluded with the Russians to influence the 2016 election and any other matters that may arise from the inquiry.
A month later, the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn II, threatened to quit after Mr. Trump asked him to have Mr. Mueller fired because the president believed he had conflict-of-interest issues that precluded him from running the special counsel investigation.

Mr. Mueller is also examining whether the president has tried to obstruct the investigation.

Mr. Trump’s lawyers are in negotiations with Mr. Mueller’s office about whether and how to allow his investigators to interview the president. Mr. Mueller’s office has shared topics it wants to discuss with the president, according to two people familiar with the talks. The lawyers have advised Mr. Trump to refuse an interview, but the president has said he wants to do it, as he believes he has done nothing wrong and can easily answer investigators’ questions.

At the same time, Mr. Trump is considering whether to bring on a new lawyer to help represent him in the special counsel’s investigation. Last week, Mr. Trump spoke with Emmet T. Flood, a longtime Washington lawyer who represented former President Bill Clinton during the impeachment process, about coming into the White House to deal with the inquiry.

During the summer of 2013, Donald J. Trump mused about whether President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia would meet him at the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow that fall. “If so, will he become my new best friend?” Mr. Trump posted on Twitter.

Mr. Putin did not make it, but the beauty competition in Moscow brought the Trump family into partnership with Emin Agalarov, a pop star in Russia, and his father, Aras — a duo that develops major real estate projects in Russia and appears friendly with the Kremlin.

Since then, Emin Agalarov has repeatedly boasted of maintaining a warm relationship with Mr. Trump. And a publicist for the younger Agalarov said on Monday that it was his client who requested that Donald Trump Jr. speak with a Kremlin-connected lawyer during the presidential campaign, a meeting first reported by .

Donald Trump Jr. — who followed through with that meeting last June, along with Mr. Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul J. Manafort, and son-in-law, Jared Kushner — said the lawyer promised information damaging to Hillary Clinton but failed to deliver, and quickly switched to a contentious issue involving United States-Russia relations.

The publicist, Rob Goldstone, a former British tabloid journalist and the president of a marketing company called Oui 2 Entertainment, has worked with Emin Agalarov, and was involved with the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow. Mr. Goldstone said he helped to arrange and attended the June 9, 2016, meeting at Trump Tower with the lawyer, Natalia Veselnitskaya.
The Agalarovs, who did not respond to an email seeking comment, are originally from Azerbaijan, but now run the Crocus Group, a large real estate development company in Russia. Shortly before the Miss Universe pageant in November 2013, Mr. Putin presented Aras Agalarov with the Order of Honor, one of Russia’s highest civilian awards. Several years earlier, the Crocus Group was selected to build the Far Eastern Federal University near Vladivostok.

Mr. Trump, an owner of the Miss Universe pageant at the time, chose the Agalarovs to host the beauty competition in 2013 in Moscow, and discussed collaborating with them on a tower in Moscow. He also appeared in one of Emin Agalarov’s music videos, which featured pageant contestants.

The pageant took place at a Crocus Group complex, and it put Mr. Trump in contact with influential people in Russia, as he explained in a September 2015 interview on “The Hugh Hewitt Show.”

“I called it my weekend in Moscow,” said Mr. Trump, who had announced his candidacy for president a few months earlier. He added: “I was with the top-level people, both oligarchs and generals, and top-of-the-government people. I can’t go further than that, but I will tell you that I met the top people, and the relationship was extraordinary.”

Aras Agalarov told The Washington Post last year that Mr. Putin was planning to meet with Mr. Trump during his visit to Moscow, but had to cancel at the last minute because of a scheduling conflict. Instead, he said, the Agalarovs passed along a friendly note from Mr. Putin and a traditional Russian box as a gift.
Emin Agalarov, who is known for being accompanied by beautiful women, and was once married to the daughter of the president of Azerbaijan, has said his relationship with Mr. Trump began when he requested that Olivia Culpo, the 2012 Miss Universe, star in a music video he was making for a song called “Amor.”

In January 2013, the Agalarovs traveled to Las Vegas to meet with Mr. Trump. The Miss USA pageant was being held there, and at the end of the competition, Mr. Trump announced that the Agalarovs would host the Miss Universe competition in Moscow later that year.

While in Russia, some of the contestants were required to film scenes for the “Amor” video, among them Erin Brady, that year’s Miss USA winner. During an interview earlier this year, Ms. Brady said that the women weren’t paid for the work and that it was seen as a requirement.

The pop star made an impression.

“If you think of a traditional Russian person, they’re like serious,” Ms. Brady said. “He was laughing and much more outgoing. He made everyone feel very welcome.”

She added: “He was excited that all of these women from all over the world were part of his production.”

During his time in Moscow, Mr. Trump also found time to film a scene for the video.

There also was discussion of development deals — and introductions to other well-connected Russians.
During the visit, the Agalarovs and Herman Gref — a former Russian economy minister who serves as the chief executive of the state-controlled Sberbank PJSC — hosted a dinner for Mr. Trump on the night of the pageant, according to Bloomberg News.

Phil Ruffin, Mr. Trump’s partner at the Trump International Hotel and Tower in Las Vegas, who flew to Moscow for the competition, said he and Mr. Trump had lunch with the Agalarovs at the Ritz-Carlton.

Hope for a deal with the Agalarovs came after many failed attempts by the Trumps to break into the real estate market in Russia dating back to the late 1980s.

Donald Trump Jr., speaking at a Manhattan real estate conference in 2008, told the audience he had been to Russia a half-dozen times over an 18-month period. “I really prefer Moscow over all cities in the world,” he said, according to eTurboNews. But he acknowledged that the Russian market was challenging, with “an issue of ‘Will I ever see my money back out of that deal or can I actually trust the person I am doing the deal with?’ ”

But after the Miss Universe weekend, his father sounded optimistic and grateful to the Agalarovs.

“I had a great weekend with you and your family,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “You have done a FANTASTIC job. TRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next. EMIN was WOW!”

Emin Agalarov told Forbes in March that plans for the joint project came to an end when Mr. Trump ran for office, but that the president has maintained contact with the family. He added that President Trump sent the Agalarovs a handwritten note after his election win.

“Now that he ran and was elected, he does not forget his friends,” he told the magazine.

Emin Agalarov also said he exchanged messages with Donald Trump Jr. as recently as January.

After Mr. Trump’s victory in November, Emin Agalarov posted a photo of himself, his father, and Mr. Trump on Instagram with the message, “The sky is the limit! Congratulations Mr. President.”

The Miss Universe pageant has been the subject of particular intrigue for months, given the federal investigation into the Kremlin’s meddling in the presidential election, and the question of whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russian officials — a claim that the president and his associates have denied.

Donald Trump Jr. said in a statement on Sunday that Ms. Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer, did not provide any information of value about Mrs. Clinton, his father’s opponent in last year’s election, during the June 2016 meeting. He said the conversation soon turned to the adoption of Russian children, and an American law called the Magnitsky Act, which blacklists those suspected of human rights abuses in Russia.

“Obviously I’m the first person on a campaign to ever take a meeting to hear info about an opponent... went nowhere but had to listen,” he said Monday on Twitter.

Amid a broadening investigation of Russian contacts with his associates and his own role in trying to stop it, President Trump fired off another angry tweet this past week repeating his assertion that he has no business interests in Russia.

But while no Trump Tower graces the Moscow skyline, the Russian authorities recently made sure that another piece of valuable property — the intellectual kind — bearing the same name remained safely in Mr. Trump’s portfolio.

Last year, while hacking Democrats’ emails and working to undermine the American presidential election, the Russian government also granted extensions to six trademarks for Mr. Trump that had been set to expire. The Trump trademarks, originally obtained between 1996 and 2007 for hotels and branding deals that never materialized, each had terms that were coming to an end in 2016.

Despite their inactivity, the Trump Organization sought extensions for the trademarks from Rospatent, the Russian government agency in charge of intellectual property. In a series of approvals starting in April 2016 and ending in December, Rospatent granted new 10-year terms for the trademarks, the agency’s records show.

Four of the approvals were officially registered on Nov. 8 — Election Day in the United States.

Under normal circumstances, renewing trademarks in Russia is generally a routine matter, and there is nothing to suggest from the few public records available that Mr. Trump was shown favoritism. Still, extensions are not guaranteed and can be subject to challenge — particularly if, as in this case, the trademarks went unused for years, according to interviews with a half-dozen lawyers specializing in intellectual property law.

And there is the unprecedented variable of the applicant, Mr. Trump, an American presidential candidate, seeking approvals from a foreign power that United States intelligence agencies concluded had tried to tip the campaign in his favor. As with other federal agencies in Russia, any sensitive decisions by Rospatent — whose director was handpicked by President Vladimir V. Putin for a previous job as deputy culture minister — are presumed to align with the views of Mr. Putin.

Beyond the questions about Russian government approvals, the trademark renewals cast doubt on Mr. Trump’s oft-stated insistence that he has no business interests in Russia. Mr. Trump has made the claims in response to investigations of possible collusion between his associates and Russia during and after the election.

In January, he wrote on Twitter, “I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA — NO DEALS, NO LOANS, NO NOTHING!” He told NBC News in May that he has “no investments in Russia, none whatsoever.” And on Thursday, he expressed frustration on Twitter over scrutiny of his “non-dealings” in Russia.
Although Mr. Trump has not managed to develop hotels in Russia despite attempts over the years, and has disclosed no active business ventures there, his intellectual property holdings are a valuable commercial interest. The extension of trademarks such as “Trump International Hotel and Tower” protects his brand in that country and preserves conditions for potential business deals.

Although Mr. Trump has not managed to develop hotels in Russia despite attempts over the years, and has disclosed no active business ventures there, his intellectual property holdings are a valuable commercial interest. The extension of trademarks such as “Trump International Hotel and Tower” protects his brand in that country and preserves conditions for potential business deals.

“Trademarks have inherent value, per se, as they allow you to stop others from using the mark either by stopping competing registrations or stopping infringing uses,” said Annsley Merelle Ward, an expert in intellectual property law at Bristows law firm in London.

In addition to the six trademarks that were renewed, the Trump Organization has two Russian trademarks that are due to expire next year. That Mr. Trump had obtained trademarks in Russia decades ago for unsuccessful projects has been previously reported; the existence of last year’s extensions was discovered by  during a recent search of Rospatent’s records.

A Rospatent spokesman initially agreed to accept questions, but then did not respond to them. Hope Hicks, a White House spokeswoman, referred questions to the Trump Organization.

Alan Garten, the chief legal counsel for the Trump Organization, said the renewals had been sought “to prevent third parties from infringing on the company’s intellectual property rights.” He added that the Trump trademarks had not faced formal challenges, despite their inactivity, and that there were no plans to use them in the future.

“The company will not be seeking any new business opportunities in Russia,” Mr. Garten said.

Used or not, the trademarks are very important, something Mr. Garten has previously addressed in defending the Trump brand elsewhere. In a 2015 deposition related to an infringement dispute in the United States, he testified that Mr. Trump’s trademarks generally were “one of his most valuable assets.”

“We take the protection and enforcement of my client’s brand extremely seriously,” Mr. Garten said. “We invest a lot of money in its efforts. It is his brand.”

The subject of Mr. Trump’s foreign trademarks has grown increasingly fraught since he won the presidential election, as his company, now run by his two adult sons, has continued to conduct business around the world. A Times review of intellectual property databases in April found that the Trump Organization had 157 trademark applications pending in 36 countries.

An announcement by China in February that it approved trademark registrations the Trumps had long sought set off alarm bells among ethics watchdogs and congressional Democrats, though the action appeared to have been the final step in a decision reached before Mr. Trump became president. Peruvian officials approved Trump trademarks in late December, not long before Peru’s president met with Mr. Trump in February.
On Wednesday, almost 200 Democratic members of Congress filed a federal lawsuit asserting that Mr. Trump’s business activities — including his intellectual property rights abroad — violate the Constitution’s ban on a president’s accepting gifts from foreign powers.

Rospatent’s records contain no information about agency deliberations or possible objections to the Trump trademarks by outside parties. Russia’s processes for handling such matters can be opaque, and “the most interesting aspects are those which are not publicized,” said Eleonora Rosati, a co-editor of the Journal of Intellectual Property Law & Practice.

“The renewal/extension of an existing trademark is not just a formality,” she said. “There are several grounds on which a trademark can be denied registration or registration not be renewed.”

In Russia — a “first-to-file” country, where longtime use of a name or logo cannot protect against a competitor’s swooping in and registering it first — it is not uncommon for businesses to file defensive registrations to keep others from grabbing their trademarks. But they need to put them to use, or the trademarks become open to challenges after three years of inactivity.

Mr. Trump first sought a trademark in Russia, for “Trump Tower,” in 1996 during one of his earliest explorations of a possible real estate project in Moscow. Ten years later, while working with the Bayrock Group on several hotels in the United States, he obtained four more Russian trademarks to be used in connection with hotels. Bayrock — whose top executives included Tevfik Arif, a Soviet-era commerce official originally from Kazakhstan, and Felix Sater, a Russian émigré and felon — scouted potential deals in Russia for Mr. Trump, but none panned out.

In 2007, while selling his brand of vodka in Russia and elsewhere, Mr. Trump obtained a trademark for that purpose, though the product was discontinued after several years. Finally, in 2008, Mr. Trump sought trademarks for a coat of arms and the name “Trump Home,” to be used with a long list of furniture products.

Since then, the Trump trademarks have remained on the books but not put to use. If there were no challenges to a renewal application, approval by Rospatent would normally not be a problem, said Peter Sloane, a trademark attorney with Leason Ellis in White Plains.

“I am not aware of any reason why a renewal would be denied if the necessary formalities, such as filing a new power of attorney, are met,” he said.

Rospatent records show that last year, the Trump Organization obtained a new intellectual property representative in Moscow to handle its trademark registrations, and has since shifted ownership of them out of Mr. Trump’s name and into a limited liability company, DTTM Operations, that he controlled. DTTM is a holding company incorporated in Delaware.

In addition to the eight DTTM-owned trademarks, there is another “Trump” trademark, unrelated to Mr. Trump, that is recognized by Rospatent, by virtue of Russia’s adherence to international treaties governing intellectual property rights. That trademark, filed by a company in Germany, is for a brand of detergent.
Donald J. Trump has reversed course and agreed on Friday to pay $25 million to settle a series of lawsuits stemming from his defunct for-profit education venture, Trump University, finally putting to rest fraud allegations by former students, which have dogged him for years and hampered his presidential campaign.

The settlement was announced by the New York attorney general just 10 days before one of the cases, a federal class-action lawsuit in San Diego, was set to be heard by a jury. The deal averts a potentially embarrassing and highly unusual predicament: a president-elect on trial, and possibly even taking the stand in his own defense, while scrambling to build his incoming administration.

It was a remarkable concession from a real estate mogul who derides legal settlements and has mocked fellow businessmen who agree to them.

But the allegations in the case were highly unpleasant for Mr. Trump: Students paid up to $35,000 in tuition for a programs that, according to the testimony of former Trump University employees, used high-pressure sales tactics and employed unqualified instructors.
The agreement wraps together the outstanding Trump University litigation, including two federal class-action cases in San Diego, and a separate lawsuit by Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general. The complaints alleged that students were cheated out of thousands of dollars in tuition through deceptive claims about what they would learn and high-pressure sales tactics.

“I am pleased that under the terms of this settlement, every victim will receive restitution and that Donald Trump will pay up to $1 million in penalties to the State of New York for violating state education laws,” Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement. “The victims of Trump University have waited years for today’s result, and I am pleased that their patience — and persistence — will be rewarded by this $25 million settlement.”

The settlement is a significant reversal from Mr. Trump, who had steadfastly rejected the allegations and vowed to fight the lawsuits, asserting that students filled out evaluations showing they were mostly happy with what they had learned in seminars. When political opponents pressed him on the claims during the campaign, Mr. Trump doubled down, saying he would eventually reopen Trump University.

“It’s something I could have settled many times,” Mr. Trump said during a debate in February. “I could settle it right now for very little money, but I don’t want to do it out of principle.”

He added, “The people that took the course all signed — most — many — many signed report cards saying it was fantastic, it was wonderful, it was beautiful.”
But the position of Mr. Trump and his legal team appeared to soften soon after his election victory on Nov. 8. At a hearing last week, Daniel Petrocelli, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, expressed interest in moving toward a settlement. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump’s lawyers were seeking to delay the trial in one of the California cases until after his inauguration on Jan. 20, while also requesting that he be allowed to testify on video.

At a hearing on the case in San Diego on Friday, Mr. Petrocelli said Mr. Trump had settled the case “without an acknowledgment of fault or liability.”

The judge overseeing the two California cases, Gonzalo Curiel, was thrust into the limelight of the campaign in May when Mr. Trump spent several minutes at a rally denouncing the judge’s decisions in the case, calling him a “hater” and questioning his impartiality because of his Mexican heritage.

After he faced days of criticism for his remarks on the judge, Mr. Trump released a statement saying his words had been “misconstrued as a categorical attack against people of Mexican heritage.” He also asserted that he was justified in questioning the fairness of his trial, given various rulings in the case that went against him. Still, he concluded, “we will win this case!”

Judge Curiel said in court Friday that he hoped that the settlement agreement — and the end of the presidential campaign — would begin “a healing process that this country very sorely needs.”

Under the agreement, Mr. Trump will pay $21 million to settle the two California class-action suits and $4 million to settle with the New York attorney general. The lawyers for the plaintiffs waived their attorneys’ fees. The deal still has to be approved in court, which could take months.

About 7,000 students will share in the settlement, according to their lawyers. The customers will be eligible to recoup at least half of what they spent at Trump University, and some could receive a full refund, the lawyers said.
Even before he was in the throes of his presidential bid, Mr. Trump began mounting a vigorous public defense of himself and Trump University. A website, 98percentapproval.com, touted high marks it received from students. A New York Times report in March, though, showed how some students recalled being pressured to give positive reviews.

Trump University, which operated from 2004 to 2010, included free introductory seminars across the country, focusing largely on real estate investing and learning Mr. Trump’s secrets. Students could then purchase more expensive packages costing up to $35,000.

Documents made public through the litigation revealed that some former Trump University managers had given testimony about its unscrupulous and exploitative business practices. One sales executive testified that the operation was “a facade, a total lie.” Another manager called it a “fraudulent scheme.”

Other records showed how Mr. Trump had overstated the depth of his involvement in the programs. Despite claims that Mr. Trump had handpicked instructors, he acknowledged in testimony that he had not.

In addition to the financial rewards, the conclusion of the Trump University cases brings vindication to former students, mostly ordinary people across the country who felt they had been robbed of their savings by Mr. Trump, a successful businessman they respected and admired.

One student, Jeffrey Tufenkian, who enrolled with his wife to pursue a real estate career, told  in 2011 that the experience “was almost completely worthless.”

“Trump University has no interest in taking care of its customers,” said Mr. Tufenkian, who paid $35,000 for a “Gold Elite” class, which he said at the time wiped out much of his savings.

Alan Garten, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said Friday that his side was “pleased” with the settlement.

“While we have no doubt that Trump University would have prevailed at trial based on the merits of this case, resolution of these matters allows President-elect Trump to devote his full attention to the important issues facing our great nation,” he said in a statement.
WASHINGTON — President Trump said on Sunday that a Trump Tower meeting between top campaign aides and a Kremlin-connected lawyer was designed to “get information on an opponent” — the starkest acknowledgment yet that a statement he dictated last year about the encounter was misleading.

Mr. Trump made the comment in a tweet on Sunday morning that was intended to be a defense of the June 2016 meeting and the role his son Donald Trump Jr. played in hosting it. The president claimed that it was “totally legal” and of the sort “done all the time in politics.”

But the tweet also served as an admission that the Trump team had not been forthright when Donald Trump Jr. issued a statement in July 2017 saying that the meeting had been primarily about the adoption of Russian children.

That statement is being scrutinized by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, who is examining a broad array of Mr. Trump’s tweets and public statements to determine whether he made them as part of an effort to deceive investigators.

People close to the president believe that he may be increasing his legal jeopardy by continuing to speak publicly about sensitive matters even as his campaign is under investigation for possible collusion with Russia and he himself is under scrutiny for possible obstruction of justice. Just last week, Mr. Trump said in a tweet that Attorney General Jeff Sessions should shut down the special counsel investigation.

While the president tried again on Sunday to portray the Trump Tower meeting as routine, it is being examined as part of Mr. Mueller’s investigation into whether Mr. Trump’s campaign conspired with the Russians to undermine Hillary Clinton’s campaign.

It is illegal for a campaign to accept help from a foreign individual or government. The president and his son have maintained that the campaign did not ultimately receive any damaging materials about Mrs. Clinton as a result of the meeting. But some legal experts contend that by simply sitting for the meeting, Donald Trump Jr. broke the law.

In his tweet on Sunday, the president denied a report in The Washington Post that he was worried about the legal exposure for Donald Trump Jr. While the president said that the meeting was legal, he also distanced himself from it, repeating his assertion that he knew nothing about it at the time.


Donald J. Trump
✔
@realDonaldTrump
 Fake News reporting, a complete fabrication, that I am concerned about the meeting my wonderful son, Donald, had in Trump Tower. This was a meeting to get information on an opponent, totally legal and done all the time in politics - and it went nowhere. I did not know about it!

80.3K
7:35 AM - Aug 5, 2018
Twitter Ads info and privacy
79.3K people are talking about this
Donald Trump Jr. issued his statement in July 2017 after  revealed the existence of the meeting. The meeting’s true purpose was exposed a few days later when The Times published emails between Donald Trump Jr. and Rob Goldstone, a British-born former tabloid reporter and entertainment publicist who helped arrange it. Mr. Goldstone said he had “something very interesting” — sensitive information that “is part of Russia and its government’s support for Mr. Trump.”

After the meeting was revealed, Mr. Trump posted a tweet similar to the one he wrote on Sunday morning: “Most politicians would have gone to a meeting like the one Don jr attended in order to get info on an opponent. That’s politics!” But his administration at the time was sticking to the adoption story line, with his press secretary, Sean Spicer, saying later that day that there was no evidence that anything but that topic had been discussed during the meeting.

Numerous White House aides and lawyers for the president aggressively denied at the time that the president had been involved in drafting the misleading statement. Jay Sekulow, one of the president’s lawyers, said in 2017 that “the president was not involved in the drafting of that statement.” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the current press secretary, insisted that the president “certainly didn’t dictate” the statement.

Donald Trump Jr. had been promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton before agreeing to hold the Trump Tower meeting.

Craig Ruttle/Associated Press



Donald Trump Jr. had been promised damaging information about Hillary Clinton before agreeing to hold the Trump Tower meeting.Craig Ruttle/Associated Press
But The Post reported in July 2017 that Mr. Trump had in fact done so. And earlier this year, Mr. Trump’s lawyers acknowledged in a memo to Mr. Mueller that the president had dictated the statement.

On Sunday, Mr. Sekulow admitted that his earlier statement had been erroneous, saying on ABC News’s “This Week” that “I had bad information at that time and made a mistake in my statement.”

In the interview, Mr. Sekulow said that it was not clear what laws the president’s son and the other campaign officials at the Trump Tower meeting might have violated when they met with the Kremlin-connected lawyer.

“Well, the question is: How would it be illegal?” Mr. Sekulow said. “What law, statute or rule or regulation’s been violated? Nobody’s pointed to one.”

Mr. Trump’s tweet on Sunday was one in a series in which he renewed his attacks on Mr. Mueller, saying his inquiry was riddled with “lies and corruption.”

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.


It came as Mr. Trump’s lawyers are continuing to try to come to terms on a presidential interview with the special counsel. While his lawyers — who believe that an interview would be a perjury trap — have argued against granting one, Mr. Trump wants to answer questions, and he has pushed his lawyers in recent days to continue negotiating the parameters of an interview.

Mr. Mueller’s investigators have told Mr. Trump’s lawyers that they want to ask him what he knew about the Trump Tower meeting at the time. The president believes that by answering the investigators’ questions, he can explain to Mr. Mueller that he and his campaign did nothing wrong, and bring an end to the investigation.

But the president and his legal advisers have in recent weeks ratcheted up their attacks on Mr. Mueller personally. In other tweets on Sunday, Mr. Trump again called the inquiry a “Rigged Witch Hunt” and singled out Mr. Mueller by name — a step he had avoided until recently.

“Why aren’t Mueller and the 17 Angry Democrats looking at the meetings concerning the Fake Dossier and all of the lying that went on in the FBI and DOJ?” Mr. Trump said, once again attacking his own law enforcement agencies.

“This is the most one sided Witch Hunt in the history of our country. Fortunately, the facts are all coming out, and fast!” he added.

Mr. Sekulow echoed the president in the interview on Sunday. Asked about the Trump Tower meeting, he repeatedly steered his answers back to attacks on Mr. Mueller’s investigation.

“Let’s be honest with the American people, there are irregularities in this investigation the likes of which we have not seen,” Mr. Sekulow said, mimicking one of the president’s favorite phrases.
Robert Guillo gave a glowing evaluation to his instructor at Trump University because, he said, the teacher pleaded for the best possible score, warning that without it, “Mr. Trump might not invite me back to teach again.”

Jeffrey Tufenkian offered excellent ratings because his Trump University-assigned mentor refused to leave the room until he did so, standing “right in front of me” as he filled out the evaluation form, he said.

John Brown tried to give his Trump University teacher a poor review — but said he was talked out of it by employees of the program, who called him three times, hounding him to raise his original scores.

“Tired of the continuing phone calls,” he later testified, “I finally gave in.” His dismal marks changed to top scores, Mr. Brown said.




In the sprawling business empire of Donald J. Trump, the real estate classes that bore his name seem to occupy a tiny, insignificant corner. But the controversy and litigation now enveloping them have taken on surprising potency in the Republican presidential campaign that he is dominating.

Now, as Mr. Trump tries to fend off claims of misleading and fraudulent practices from scores of former students, claims his opponents have brought up in debates and in ads, his biggest weapon is what appears to be the overwhelmingly positive reviews from past participants — a 98 percent level of satisfaction, in his telling. “Beautiful statements,” is how he describes the evaluations.

But hundreds of pages of legal documents, as well as interviews with former students and instructors, suggest the surveys themselves were a central component of a business model that, according to lawsuits and investigators, deceived consumers into handing over thousands of dollars with tantalizing promises of riches.



Rise of the Golden Jackal

How Does Your State Make Electricity?

In 12 Minutes, Everything Went Wrong

Donald J. Trump at a news conference in 2005 announcing the establishment of Trump University. Though the business no longer operates, Mr. Trump has vowed to bring it back.

Thos Robinson/Getty s



Donald J. Trump at a news conference in 2005 announcing the establishment of Trump University. Though the business no longer operates, Mr. Trump has vowed to bring it back.Thos Robinson/Getty s
Interviews and documents show that employees of Trump University at times applied pressure on students to offer favorable reviews, instructed them to fill out the forms in order to obtain their graduation certificates, and ignored standard practices used to ensure that the surveys were filled out objectively.

“It’s absolutely a con,” said Mr. Guillo, who spent $36,000 on Trump University classes and later requested a refund. “The role of the evaluations were a defense against any legal actions. They anticipated those actions.”




At the same time, students and their lawyers have raised doubts about Mr. Trump’s claim of 98 percent satisfaction. A website set up to defend Trump University, 98percentapproval.com, has published 10,000 student evaluations, but not all of them were from paying students. They include some from the more than 3,000 free guests that paying participants were encouraged to bring to the classes. More than 2,000 other students never made it to the end of their courses — they sought and received refunds before the end of their classes, as company policy allowed, according to court records.

In an interview, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, Daniel M. Petrocelli, said the experience of students who felt manipulated “is not representative of what happened across the board.”

“Folks were not coerced,” he said of the positive evaluations. “It’s completely implausible to suggest that the 10,000 reviews from the students and their guests were the result of pressure or coercion. They gave overwhelmingly positive reviews because they were being honest about their assessment.”

Mr. Trump has vowed to fight the litigation, which includes a class-action lawsuit in San Diego seeking refunds for former Trump University students, and a lawsuit from the New York attorney general. He has said the aggrieved former students are simply looking for easy money after having learned valuable lessons about how to buy and sell real estate, obtain financing and spot undervalued properties.

Though the business no longer operates, Mr. Trump has vowed to bring it back, giving it to his children to run if he is elected president.

As he campaigns across the country boasting about the Trump University success story, he and his lawyers have deployed the evaluations to try to undercut the claims of former students who say they regret paying for the courses, posting their reviews online and, in one instance, waving them in front of a camera.




The certificate that Mr. Guillo received from Trump University and a photo of himself at one of the seminars.Andrew Renneisen for
That was the case with Mr. Guillo, 76, who lives on Long Island and filed an affidavit in the New York case. After the former student criticized Trump University in a campaign commercial for a “super PAC” supporting Senator Marco Rubio, Mr. Trump uploaded a video to YouTube in which he produced a copy of Mr. Guillo’s positive evaluation. “All excellent,” Mr. Trump said of the scores. “One hundred percent.”




In court papers, a lawyer for Mr. Trump argued that another student suing the university “was either dishonest in his evaluations of Trump University, or the allegations in the complaint are false.”

By all accounts, student evaluations held a crucial place inside Trump University, where students signed up for real estate training programs with escalating costs that promised to teach the mogul’s techniques and wisdom. At free 90-minute introductory sessions, Trump University representatives marketed three-day workshops starting at $995; at those, more intensive programs were pitched, like “Trump Gold Elite,” whose price reached $35,000.

At the conclusion of every program, teachers instructed attendees to complete surveys, rating the experience on a scale of 1 to 5. But, in what academics and experts said were unusual practices, Trump University did not explicitly offer students anonymity on the forms, often asked them to complete the documents in the presence of instructors and, according to internal Trump University documents made public in litigation, asked students to submit the surveys in exchange for their graduation certificates.

“Does the word coercion come to mind?” asked Howard E. Haller, a former Trump University consultant who has worked in the education world for decades. In normal academic settings, he said, “No one knows if you even filled it out. The professor sure doesn’t know.”

Lawyers for Mr. Trump said students could elect not to put their names on the surveys, as some did. But they said the documents did not specify that doing so was an option.

Most evaluations, the lawyers added, were handed out by staff members and completed in large classrooms where it was not possible for a teacher to influence the outcome.




Tad Lignell, a mentor in the more personalized, $35,000 program, said that a number of his students achieved financial success from the lessons he had taught them.

A sign directing participants to free introductory classes for Trump University held at a Holiday Inn in Arlington, Va., in 2009.

Sarah L. Voisin/The Washington Post, via Getty s




A sign directing participants to free introductory classes for Trump University held at a Holiday Inn in Arlington, Va., in 2009.Sarah L. Voisin/The Washington Post, via Getty s
But he conceded that the evaluation system made it uncomfortable for students to register their disapproval.

Assigned to demonstrate how to buy and sell real estate in places such as Las Vegas, Mr. Lignell routinely asked students to fill out the evaluations in front of him at restaurants or coffee shops, he said in an interview.

At that moment, he said, vulnerable students still needed and expected his guidance. “ ‘I want this guy to be my friend, I need his help,’ ” he said, summing up their mind-set as they filled out the forms.

Virtually all his students, he said, gave him the top rating of 5. Had they not, his income ($5,500 per student, and later $4,500) could have been in jeopardy.

He said that Trump University managers made clear that teachers with low ratings would be passed over in favor of those with high scores. “That puts an emphasis on getting 5,” he said. “If you wanted more students, you knew you needed those.”

(Mr. Lignell said that Trump University had failed to pay him for several students; the company’s lawyer did not comment on the claim. “If Trump wins the presidency,” Mr. Lignell said, “I’ve got a president who owes me $50,000.”)

Mr. Tufenkian, who enrolled in the $35,000 “Trump Gold Elite” program with his wife, Sona, to jump-start a career in real estate, said his mentor was adamant that he needed all 5s on his evaluation.




“He even said something like, ‘I won’t leave until you give me all 5s,’ ” recalled Mr. Tufenkian, who lives in Oregon. “When it was time to fill the evaluation out, he put it in front of me — right between the two of us on the table — and reiterated that he expected all 5s while he watched me.”

Mr. Tufenkian, who had just finished a three-day visit with his mentor, said he obliged because the program was supposed to be the start of a productive yearlong relationship. “Am I supposed to upset the guy who’s supposed to be helping me be successful?”

Not every student felt compelled. In court filings, lawyers for Mr. Trump introduced the testimony of students such as Amy Hinderer, who participated in the “Trump Gold Elite” program.

“Every rating I gave my mentor was always positive, and I still agree with what I said to this day,” she wrote.

Mr. Trump has dismissed the criticism that Trump University’s evaluation system encouraged positive reviews. Asked about the lack of anonymity, he said under oath in a January deposition, “I think it’s much better when a student puts their name on it.” Without names, he said, “they don’t mean anything, actually.”

Pressed on whether students might fear repercussions, Mr. Trump rejected the notion. “Only a lawyer could think of that,” Mr. Trump said, continuing, “You mean that’s why they said such great things about the school?”

He added: “I think they meant it was very good. Until they found out they could get their money back.”




But experts said such practices were designed to influence the evaluations.

“People don’t want a fight. People don’t want to be mean. People want to be nonconfrontational,” said John T. Reed, who was hired as a potential paid expert witness for the plaintiffs in one of the Trump lawsuits, but has no current role in the cases. “So they write a seminar evaluation, and hand it in, face-to-face.”

“That,” Mr. Reed added, “is where you get your 98 percent.”
The president’s Twitter defense came a day after his former lawyer Michael D. Cohen admitted in court that he had lied to Congress about the extent of the Trump Organization’s pursuit of an agreement to build a tower in Moscow. Mr. Cohen said that, to help Mr. Trump politically, he had falsely testified that the Russia efforts had been dropped by January 2016, when they had in fact continued until June. By that point, Mr. Trump had clinched the Republican presidential nomination.

The tweets echoed what one of Mr. Trump’s personal lawyers, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said a day earlier about the prospective Russia deal. Mr. Giuliani said that Mr. Trump’s written answers to questions posed by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, were consistent with what Mr. Cohen said in court on Thursday.

“The president said there was a proposal, it was discussed with Cohen, there was a nonbinding letter of intent and it didn’t go beyond that,” Mr. Giuliani said on Thursday.

The president’s answers, submitted to the special counsel this month, have not been made public. But Mr. Cohen’s latest version of events raised questions about whether Mr. Trump had been truthful with Mr. Mueller’s team. The president’s veracity with the special counsel has taken on greater import as his team has pursued charges against a string of witnesses for lying to investigators.

At issue is how long into the presidential campaign the Moscow opportunity was under consideration — at the time, questions were swirling about Mr. Trump’s desire for friendlier ties to Russia. In 2016, Moscow was conducting a clandestine effort aimed at getting Mr. Trump elected, and Mr. Mueller is investigating whether the Trump campaign conspired in those efforts.

Speaking to reporters on Thursday as he left Washington for an economic summit meeting in Buenos Aires, Mr. Trump said Mr. Cohen was weak and had lied to prosecutors so that he could get a reduced sentence for other crimes he has pleaded guilty to.

The president told reporters he did not know exactly when the Russia discussions had ceased, but he said his recollection was early in 2016.

“We decided — I decided ultimately — not to do it,” Mr. Trump said, adding, “There would have been nothing wrong if I did do it.”



How the Slice Joint Made Pizza the Perfect New York City Food

The Itsy-Bitsy, Teenie-Weenie, Very Litigious Bikini

Every Building on Every Block: A Time Capsule of 1930s New York
Mr. Giuliani called Mr. Cohen a liar. “He has so many different versions of the same stories, so by definition he is a liar and we can’t trust him,” Mr. Giuliani said. “Given the fact that he’s a liar, I can’t tell you what he’s lying about.”

Under fire for suggesting that a federal judge, Gonzalo P. Curiel, was biased because he is Mexican-American, Donald J. Trump said on Tuesday that the judge’s heritage does not make him  “incapable of being impartial.” Here’s the statement his campaign released:

It is unfortunate that my comments have been misconstrued as a categorical attack against people of Mexican heritage. I am friends with and employ thousands of people of Mexican and Hispanic descent. The American justice system relies on fair and impartial judges. All judges should be held to that standard. I do not feel that one’s heritage makes them incapable of being impartial, but based on the rulings that I have received in the Trump University civil case, I feel justified in questioning whether I am receiving a fair trial.

Over the past few weeks, I have watched as the media has reported one inaccuracy after another concerning the ongoing litigation involving Trump University. There are several important facts the public should know and that the media has failed to report.

Throughout the litigation my attorneys have continually demonstrated that students who participated in Trump University were provided a substantive, valuable education based upon a curriculum developed by professors from Northwestern University, Columbia Business School, Stanford University and other respected institutions. And the response from students was overwhelming. Over a five-year period, more than 10,000 paying students filled out surveys giving the courses high marks and expressing their overwhelming satisfaction with Trump University’s programs. For example:

Former student Tarla Makaeff, the original plaintiff in the litigation, not only completed multiple surveys rating Trump University’s three-day seminar “excellent” in every category, but also praised Trump University’s mentorship program in a glowing five-plus minute video testimonial. When asked “how could Trump University help to meet [her] goals,” she simply stated “[c]ontinue to offer great classes.” Once the plaintiffs’ lawyers realized how disastrous a witness she was, they asked to have her removed from the case. Over my lawyers’ objections, the judge granted the plaintiffs’ motion, but allowed the case to continue.

Art Cohen, a lead plaintiffs in the litigation, completed a survey in which he not only rated Trump University’s three-day seminar “excellent” in virtually every category, but went so far as to indicate that he would “attend another Trump University seminar” and even “recommend Trump University seminars to a friend.” When asked how Trump University could improve the seminar, Mr. Cohen’s only suggestion was to “[h]ave lunch sandwiches brought in” and make the lunch break 45 minutes. Former student Bob Giullo, who has been critical of Trump University in numerous interviews and negative s from my political opponents, also expressed his satisfaction, rating Trump University’s programs “excellent” in every category. When asked how Trump University could improve its programs, Mr. Giullo simply asked that students be provided “more comfortable chairs.”




Indeed, these are just a few of literally thousands of positive surveys, all of which can be viewed online at www.98percentapproval.com.

The scene before Donald J. Trump spoke on Tuesday night at Trump National Golf Club Westchester in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

Damon Winter/



The scene before Donald J. Trump spoke on Tuesday night at Trump National Golf Club Westchester in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.Damon Winter/
For those students who decided that Trump University’s programs were not for them, the company had a generous refund policy, offering a full refund to any student who asked for their money back within three days of signing up for a program or by the end of the first day of any multiday program, whichever came later.

Normally, legal issues in a civil case would be heard in a neutral environment. However, given my unique circumstances as nominee of the Republican Party and the core issues of my campaign that focus on illegal immigration, jobs and unfair trade, I have concerns as to my ability to receive a fair trial.

I am fighting hard to bring jobs back to the United States. Many companies — like Ford, General Motors, Nabisco, Carrier — are moving production to Mexico. Drugs and illegal immigrants are also pouring across our border. This is bad for all Americans, regardless of their heritage.

Due to what I believe are unfair and mistaken rulings in this case and the judge’s reported associations with certain professional organizations, questions were raised regarding the Obama-appointed judge’s impartiality. It is a fair question. I hope it is not the case.



How Does Your State Make Electricity?

Rebuilding a Puerto Rico Barrio: ‘Dead Is the Only Way They’ll Ever Get Me to Leave’

The Enduring Fight Over the First Ironman Triathlon




While this lawsuit should have been dismissed, it is now scheduled for trial in November. I do not intend to comment on this matter any further. With all of the thousands of people who have given the courses such high marks and accolades, we will win this case!

Donald J. Trump
President-elect Donald J. Trump is considering formally turning over the operational responsibility for his real estate company to his two adult sons, but he intends to keep a stake in the business and resist calls to divest, according to several people briefed on the discussions.

Under a plan now being considered by the Trump family and its lawyers, Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s elder daughter, would also take a leave of absence from the Trump Organization, in the surest sign that she is exploring a potential move to Washington with her husband, Jared Kushner. Mr. Kushner is discussing an as-yet undetermined role advising his father-in-law, and Ms. Trump plans on being an advocate on issues in which she has a personal interest, like child care.

Before deciding how to separate from her father’s business, Ms. Trump is also assessing how to disentangle from her apparel and licensing brands, which are named for her, two people briefed on her plans said. She plans on appointing a president of her company to run the day-to-day operations.

The Trumps are exploring what was described by one person briefed on the discussions as a “legal structure” that would give Mr. Trump and his daughter separation from the company.  spoke to two people involved in the transition process who were granted anonymity to speak candidly about continuing negotiations.




None of the plans have been completed, and it remains uncertain precisely what the president-elect will reveal next week at an expected news conference at which he has said he will discuss “leaving my great business in total in order to fully focus on running the country.”

Aides to Ms. Trump and to Mr. Trump’s transition team declined to comment.

In announcing on Twitter last week that he would hold a news conference, Mr. Trump acknowledged that leaving his business was “visually important, as President, to in no way have a conflict of interest with my various businesses.”


The Array of Conflicts of Interest Facing the Trump Presidency
Donald J. Trump’s global business empire will create an unprecedented number of conflicts of interest for a United States president, experts say.

Dec. 1, 2016
Still, the Trump family is facing enormous external pressure to do as much as it can to ensure a bright line between the president-elect’s business brand and his role leading the country.

And any arrangement in which Mr. Trump derives a financial interest in his business could add to criticism about potential conflicts that could arise from the Trump Organization’s global ties.

The Office of Government Ethics has told Mr. Trump’s lawyers that only a divestiture would resolve ethical concerns, guidance that was made public in an extraordinary stream of posts on the office’s Twitter feed. Officials with the office did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the plan under consideration.




The federal law that prevents federal employees from making decisions involving their financial interests exempts the president and vice president, though no recent sitting president has maintained foreign financial holdings as extensive as Mr. Trump’s.

At a meeting with The Times last month, Mr. Trump pointed out the absence of laws governing conflicts of interest for a sitting president. “The law’s totally on my side, the president can’t have a conflict of interest,” Mr. Trump said, defending his decision to remain attached to his business, even with a loosened grip.

He said then that he preferred to turn it over to his children, with his elder daughter taking the lead.

Some on the transition team have privately expressed concern over how foreign and domestic interests could seek to curry influence with the president by doing business with his adult sons, Donald Jr. and Eric, that ultimately accrues to Mr. Trump’s financial benefit.

At least part of Mr. Trump’s reluctance to sell off his holdings stems from tax liability concerns, according to a person briefed on the plan. Government officials can defer capital gains taxes on assets they sell to avoid conflicts, providing they reinvest the money in government securities or certain approved mutual funds. But the bill comes due if those assets are sold after a person leaves office.

Ivanka, Donald Jr. and Eric Trump, who grew up in their father’s business and are currently executive vice presidents, have told people that complaints about appearances of impropriety could be a continuing distraction for their father as he puts together his administration.

Jan W. Baran, a leading Republican ethics lawyer, said that even though the law was clearly on Mr. Trump’s side, there were no easy answers on what he should do about his financial holdings.




If he keeps a stake in his company, persistent questions about whether he is acting in the country’s interest or his business interest will be “unavoidable,” Mr. Baran said.

On the other hand, Mr. Baran said, if Mr. Trump decides to divest, that raises other questions. “Who are you going sell it to?” he said. “Does selling his stake eliminate the ethical issues, or does it compound them?”

Eric Trump, one of Mr. Trump’s sons, in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York last week. He serves as an executive vice president of development and acquisitions for his father’s company.



Eric Trump, one of Mr. Trump’s sons, in the lobby of Trump Tower in New York last week. He serves as an executive vice president of development and acquisitions for his father’s company.Sam Hodgson for
There will also be lingering questions related to Mr. Trump’s children, depending on the structure the family settles on for running the company, Mr. Baran added.

As outlined, the plan could leave in place many of the potential conflicts of interest growing out of a real estate and licensing business that spans at least 20 nations, in places like India, Indonesia and Turkey.

Richard W. Painter, who served as the chief White House ethics lawyer under President George W. Bush from 2005 to 2007, and who is planning to police the Trump administration in a role with the watchdog group Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, noted that the Emoluments Clause of the Constitution prohibits government officials from accepting gifts and payments from foreign governments or corporations controlled by foreign governments.

Investments or loans from foreign state-controlled financial institutions, even diplomats staying at or hosting events at Trump hotel properties, could run afoul of that clause, Mr. Painter said.

Mr. Trump will also have to take care to ensure that concessions that benefit his company are not construed as a bribe intended to influence official action. Mr. Painter said that even setting aside the legal questions, everything Mr. Trump does will be filtered through the lens of how he stands to benefit financially.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.





“There are ways to make it work legally, but the appearances are going to be terrible and it’s going to be a four-year ethical challenge,” Mr. Painter said.

Presidents Ronald Reagan, Bill Clinton and both Mr. Bush and his father held their assets in blind trusts while in office. President Obama did not use one, but he had minimal investments and they were unlikely to pose direct conflicts. His wife, Michelle Obama, gave up her professional responsibilities before he took office.

While it is unclear what structure Mr. Trump proposes to set up to wall himself off from decision-making, the continuing involvement of two of his children in the business would complicate matters. And for a trust to be truly blind, experts say that the assets would have to be liquidated — and that Mr. Trump, who will be the wealthiest president in American history, would have to have no knowledge of how the proceeds were invested.
On Thursday, after Michael D. Cohen revealed new information about the Trump Organization’s business dealings with Russia, President Trump called his former personal lawyer a liar.

“He is a weak person,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House. He added: “Very simply, Michael Cohen is lying.” He was referring to Mr. Cohen pleading guilty to lying to Congress about a real estate deal to build a tower in Moscow.

But Mr. Trump, who is identified as “Individual 1” in court documents that accompanied Mr. Cohen’s admission, was himself less than forthcoming about the prospective real estate project during the 2016 campaign.

At no time did Mr. Trump disclose that the Trump Organization had entered negotiations for the property, known as the Moscow Project. And evidence presented in the documents filed on Thursday contradicts Mr. Trump’s repeated denials of his financial interests in Russia and his playing down of campaign contacts with Russian officials.

According to the documents, Mr. Cohen pursued the project through June 2016 — as Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign gained momentum. At the time, Mr. Cohen served as executive vice president and special counsel for the Trump Organization, which he joined in 2007; he also was a frequent public mouthpiece for the Republican front-runner’s campaign.

Here is the special counsel’s account of the Trump Organization’s efforts to build the Moscow tower, based on new information from Mr. Cohen, compared with what Mr. Trump has said about it.

[You can find the court documents here.]

WHAT THE CHARGES SAY

The Moscow Project was discussed multiple times within the Company and did not end in January 2016. Instead, as late as approximately June 2016, COHEN and Individual 2 discussed efforts to obtain Russian governmental approval for the Moscow Project. COHEN discussed the status and progress of the Moscow Project with Individual 1 on more than the three occasions COHEN claimed to the Committee, and he briefed family members of Individual 1 within the Company about the project.

WHAT MR. TRUMP SAID

“I have nothing to do with Russia. I never did.”
On at least 23 occasions since the summer of 2016, Mr. Trump has said either that he had “nothing” to do with Russia, or that he has “no deals,” no investments and no “business” in Russia.

While the Moscow Project never materialized, Mr. Trump never disclosed that he had pursued the deal while running for president. In several instances, his denials were misleading by omission.

“What do I have to do with Russia? You know the closest I came to Russia, I bought a house a number of years ago in Palm Beach, Fla.,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference on July 27, 2016, referring to a mansion he sold to a Russian businessman for $95 million in 2008.

Mr. Trump also repeatedly sought business opportunities in Russia over three decades.

(Repetitions in 2018: Oct. 29, Sept. 7, July 20, July 19, July 18, | Repetitions in 2017: July 25, July 19, May 13, May 11, Feb. 16, Feb. 7, Jan. 11, Jan. 11 | Repetitions in 2016: Oct. 27, Oct. 26, Oct. 25, Oct. 24, Oct. 12, Oct. 9, Sept. 16, July 31, July 26)

WHAT THE CHARGES SAY

COHEN did recall that in or around January 2016, COHEN received a response from the office of Russian Official 1, the Press Secretary for the President of Russia, and spoke to a member of that office about the Moscow Project.

WHAT MR. TRUMP SAID

“There was no talking to Russia. There was no phone calls.”
Mr. Cohen admitted that he called the assistant to the Russian president’s spokesman, at a Moscow-based phone number, and spoke with her about the proposed tower.

Mr. Trump, however, has said at least six times that nobody on his campaign spoke to any Russians. He also has contradicted himself on that point, by describing aides who have admitted to having contact with Russians as “low level” or only briefly employed.

Asked by a reporter on Feb. 16, 2017, whether he was aware if anyone who advised his campaign had contacts with Russia during the campaign, Mr. Trump said his former national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, “obviously was dealing.”

But other than Mr. Flynn, “no, no, nobody that I know of,” Mr. Trump answered.

“I have nothing to do with Russia,” he said. “To the best of my knowledge, no person that I deal with does.”

WHAT THE CHARGES SAY

COHEN agreed to travel to Russia in connection with the Moscow Project and took steps in contemplation of Individual 1’s possible travel to Russia. COHEN and Individual 2 discussed on multiple occasions traveling to Russia to pursue the Moscow Project.

WHAT MR. TRUMP SAID

“He brings his passport to my office. I say, ‘Hey, wait a minute. He didn’t leave the country. He wasn’t out of the country.' They had, ‘Michael Cohen of the Trump Organization was in Prague.’”
At a news conference on Jan. 11, 2017, Mr. Trump dismissed a salacious dossier that, among other things, claimed that Mr. Cohen had traveled to Prague to meet with Russian officials.

While there is no proof that Mr. Cohen went to Prague on Mr. Trump’s behalf, the lawyer did consider traveling to Russia, according to the charging documents.

According to the documents, Mr. Cohen asked Mr. Trump about the possibility of Mr. Trump himself traveling to Russia “in connection with the Moscow Project.” Mr. Cohen also discussed going to Russia himself.

GURGAON, India — When the Trump family jet lands in India this week, the family member taking a tour of the world’s largest democracy — with a Secret Service detail in tow — won’t be the president on a diplomatic mission. It will be his eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., on a sales trip.

But Indians might be forgiven for not making much of the distinction.

The visit by the younger Mr. Trump, intended to help sell more than $1 billion in luxury residential units being built by the Trumps and their local partners, has been promoted with newspaper s that read: “Trump has arrived. Have you?”

The younger Mr. Trump’s weeklong itinerary of cocktail parties, dinners and events with real estate brokers, business leaders and prospective buyers comes as President Trump is working to strengthen ties between the two countries.

The president, who enjoys widespread popularity in India, was greeted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a bear hug in Washington last June, and the two leaders have frequently discussed greater military cooperation and ramping up trade. Mr. Trump has also taken a harder line toward Pakistan and China, two of India’s rivals. Two weeks ago, President Trump phoned Mr. Modi pledging “to strengthen security and economic cooperation” between India and the United States.

From left, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and President Trump during a bilateral meeting in Manila last year.

Doug Mills/



From left, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India and President Trump during a bilateral meeting in Manila last year.Doug Mills/
The overlap in India between father and son creates a spectacle with few parallels in business and diplomacy.

The younger Mr. Trump is scheduled to arrive on Monday on a Boeing 757 nicknamed Trump Force One, because the president crisscrossed the United States on the plane during the campaign.

The Trump family earned as much as $3 million in royalties in 2016 from ventures in India, according to the president’s financial disclosure report. And Ivanka Trump made her own trip to India in November, in her capacity as a member of Trump administration, just as sales were about to start on some of the residential projects.

“The idea that the president’s son would be going and shilling the president’s brand at same time Donald Trump is president and is managing strategic and foreign relations with India — that is just bizarre,” said Daniel S. Markey, who helped coordinate South Asia policy at the State Department during the George W. Bush administration.

 for the Morning Briefing
Get what you need to know to start your day in the United States, Canada and the Americas, delivered to your inbox.


The Trump Tower in Mumbai, India, far right, under construction in 2016.

Asmita Parelkar for




The Trump Tower in Mumbai, India, far right, under construction in 2016.Asmita Parelkar for
There are no formal federal rules that prohibit the younger Mr. Trump from pursuing his business interests; he is a private citizen. And even though President Trump is still a beneficial owner of the family business, he is not subject to conflict of interest laws, as the president is exempt. The White House, asked if Donald Trump Jr.’s trip gave even an appearance of a conflict of interest, declined to comment on the matter.

India is the Trump Organization’s biggest international market, with four real estate projects underway. The largest is here in Gurgaon, a fast-growing city outside New Delhi with a litany of Fortune 500 companies and a skyline filled with skyscrapers. The Trump development encompasses two towers with a total of 254 “ultra luxury” units, according to the company, each selling for up to $1.5 million.

The luxury apartment buildings near the Trump development in Gurgaon have names like Palm Springs and Central Park, even as they overlook pothole-ridden highways. The Trumps and their partners are offering buyers the opportunity to become “members of the Trump family,” with the promise of exclusive amenities such as an infinity swimming pool, a billiards room and valet services. The marketing materials, however, don’t mention the president — his name and , as well as that of his daughter Ivanka, who joined his administration, were removed from brochures, websites and billboards from projects in India and elsewhere in the world.

Still, confusion among Indians is evident.

“I had no idea that Trump built property around the world before this development was launched,” said Hitesh Khanna, who is helping sell units at the Trump towers in Gurgaon through a local real estate brokerage firm. “I just thought he was president.”



Rebuilding a Puerto Rico Barrio: ‘Dead Is the Only Way They’ll Ever Get Me to Leave’

The People of Mbomo Tell Their Stories

Despite Bitcoin’s Dive, a Former Soviet Republic Is Still Betting Big on It
The Trump Towers development being prominently advertised at a Tribeca showroom in Gurgaon.






The Trump Towers development being prominently advertised at a Tribeca showroom in Gurgaon.
Mr. Khanna’s boss, Rajiv Bansal, predicted the presidential connection would create enough buzz to entice buyers. Mr. Khanna was working out of a roadside tent near the construction site, with a tattered emerald green felt carpet at its entrance.

“Everyone in India knows who the U.S. president is,” Mr. Bansal said. “It’s a status symbol. This is a big brand, the president of the United States’ name will be on it.”

Donald Trump Jr., in an interview in New York last week, said that he had spent nearly a decade “cultivating relationships in India” and that the company was “now seeing the response of that effort.” To that point, the newspaper s in India featured large photographs of him, arms crossed and staring into the camera.

The younger Mr. Trump said his itinerary did not include interactions with government officials in an intentional effort to steer clear of politics.

Hitesh Khanna, center, tried to help sell units at the planned Trump development in Gurgaon, operating out of a roadside tent near the site.

Hitesh Khanna, center, tried to help sell units at the planned Trump development in Gurgaon, operating out of a roadside tent near the site.
“We certainly won’t get involved in that,” he said, when asked if the company would seek concessions or incentives for the developments from Indian officials. “Not at all.”

He is scheduled, nonetheless, to speak at the Global Business Summit in New Delhi, sponsored by a prominent Indian newspaper and a bank, who say the event will “showcase India’s rise in world affairs.” Mr. Trump is billed as a keynote speaker, along with Prime Minister Modi.

Other stops on the 3,000-mile journey include Kolkata, where construction on a project with 137 luxury units is about to begin; Mumbai, where a 78-story Trump-branded tower with 400 residences is scheduled to be completed next year; and Pune, a city near Mumbai, where a fourth Trump-branded project has been built.

The Trumps’ partner in Pune is Panchshil Realty, which was co-founded and is run by two brothers, Atul Chordia and Sagar Chordia, who are active in the opposition Nationalist Congress Party and who have a longstanding relationship with the head of the party, Sharad Pawar.

Donald Trump Jr., left, and Eric Trump at the Trump Tower in New York last year. “I personally have spent a tremendous time cultivating relationships in India and we are now seeing the response of that effort,” Donald Jr. said.
Donald Trump Jr., left, and Eric Trump at the Trump Tower in New York last year. “I personally have spent a tremendous time cultivating relationships in India and we are now seeing the response of that effort,” Donald Jr. said.Todd Heisler/
The Trump Organization has not put up capital for its Indian projects, instead relying on Indian-based partners whose investors include Morgan Stanley and a Singapore investment fund. The Trump Organization gets a cut of the sales, with payments increasing if the units sell above market rates.

So far, according to business partners in India, many units are selling about 30 percent per square foot higher than market rates. The younger Mr. Trump’s visit this week is expected to reinforce that trend, they said, even as many other luxury housing towers have hundreds of empty units. In addition to an oversupply, a recent Indian government crackdown on the so-called black money economy has hurt sales at competing developments, but the Trump name remains a draw.

“The brand is a lead generator,” said Kalpesh Mehta, who runs the Mumbai-based development company Tribeca, which serves as the lead representative for the Trump brand in India. “It is what is making people pay attention and look at it deeply.”

Buyers who put down a deposit this week, according to an  wrapped around the front page of The Hindustan Times this weekend, are promised a seat at a dinner with the younger Mr. Trump.

An electricity pylon bearing a banner promoting the Trump development.






An electricity pylon bearing a banner promoting the Trump development.
Madhav Das Nalapat, an academic and prominent newspaper columnist who is close to senior members of India’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, said the excitement around the Trump towers was an extension of the country’s complicated caste system and the Trump administration’s tough stance on its rival Pakistan.

“India is a hierarchical society,” he said. “Trump is now leading the No. 1 country in the world, so his brand has higher value. That counts. It’s not who he is. It’s what he is.”

Under voluntary ethics rules governing the Trump Organization’s activities during the Trump presidency, international projects in the works before the 2016 election — which include all of the India properties now being marketed — can proceed as planned. President Trump handed over daily operations of the company to his sons Donald Jr. and Eric, but he remains the owner.

Still, some ethics lawyers say the mere presence of the Trump Organization in India is problematic.

“The question isn’t just whether Don Trump Jr. is making phone calls to say, ‘Give me a favor,’” said Zephyr Teachout, a Fordham University law professor who is part of a lawsuit claiming that President Trump’s business ties violate the emoluments clause of the Constitution. “It is by having these business entanglements, does it create incentives and opportunities for people in the Indian government to try to use the business relations to impact American policy.”

A vendor stacking newspapers with s for the proposed Trump towers development in Gurgaon.






A vendor stacking newspapers with s for the proposed Trump towers development in Gurgaon.
The Trump family’s financial interests in India could also call into question the president’s objectivity in dealing with the country, Ms. Teachout said.

“It looks bad, it smells bad, and it leaves an uncertainty in the faith of the American public about the diplomatic choices that the Trump administration makes regarding India,” she said.

Arun Kumar Singh, a former ambassador to the United States from India, and Mr. Markey, the former State Department official who is now a professor at Johns Hopkins University’s School of Advanced International Studies, said they had not seen changes in United States policy toward India that they would attribute to President Trump’s business interests.

The biggest difference from the Obama administration, they said, was the apparent warmth between President Trump and Prime Minister Modi.

“I have always had a deep admiration for your country and for its people, and a profound appreciation for your rich culture, heritage and traditions,” President Trump said in June during a state visit by Prime Minister Modi, one of many such words of praise for India he has offered in the last year.

WASHINGTON — Ozan M. Ozkural, a London-based investment manager, found a creative way to gain one-on-one access to the new first family: He bid nearly $60,000 to have a cup of coffee with Ivanka Trump for a charity event she was hosting.

Mr. Ozkural wanted to meet with Ms. Trump — who is considering playing an informal role in her father’s administration — to gain insight into topics like President-elect Donald J. Trump’s possible future dealings with Turkey and other nations where Mr. Ozkural invests, he said.

“The nature of my business, we talk to a lot of different governments, a lot of politicians and lawmakers across the world,” Mr. Ozkural said in an interview on Thursday, adding that he recently had a conversation with the president of Argentina. “You end up getting a better sense of what the modus operandi will be.”




Mr. Ozkural is one of several high-profile bidders in a feverish competition to win time with one of Mr. Trump’s children. Other bidders include the owner of a Tex-Mex restaurant chain from Houston who wants to press Mr. Trump, through his daughter, about immigration policy, and a real estate executive and fringe presidential candidate from Florida who wants to send a message to Mr. Trump about election fraud.

Ozan M. Ozkural, an investment manager, bid nearly $60,000 to have coffee with Ivanka Trump for charity.

Sam Hodgson for



Ozan M. Ozkural, an investment manager, bid nearly $60,000 to have coffee with Ivanka Trump for charity.Sam Hodgson for
Now they may not get a chance to “Enjoy Coffee with Ivanka Trump in NYC or DC,” by winning the auction on LOT #:1182106, hosted by a New York company called Charitybuzz. The money was to go to a foundation led by Ms. Trump’s brother Eric to benefit St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital of Tennessee.

But Eric Trump told  on Thursday that he was considering shutting down the bidding — 10 days after it started — about an hour after The Times raised questions about the auction.

Twitter Ads info and privacy
845 people are talking about this
The charitable fund-raising by Mr. Trump’s children is problematic, ethics lawyers said, because of the unusual role they are playing in the transition process, with Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, attending meetings the president-elect had with executives from major technology companies and with the prime minister of Japan, and Mr. Trump’s oldest son, Donald Jr., helping to select the nominee for interior secretary.

The Obama administration prohibited any member of the first family from directly soliciting charitable donations, said Norm Eisen, who served as an ethics lawyer early in President Obama’s tenure. Mr. Obama and his wife, Michelle, have attended occasional charitable fund-raising events, including the Congressional Black Caucus annual dinners. The Obamas also allowed their daughters’ high school to auction off magazines they had signed, Mr. Eisen said, but they did not auction off access to themselves.

“You never, ever want to have government officials using their public office for the private gain, even for a worthy charity,” Mr. Eisen said. “That was how we did it.”



For Wales, Nuclear Plant Would Mean New Jobs. For the U.K., It May Mean More.

The Treasure Behind the Wall

The N.F.L.’s Obesity Scourge


The online site CharityBuzz is handling an auction to have coffee with Ivanka Trump.


The online site CharityBuzz is handling an auction to have coffee with Ivanka Trump.
The circumstance with the Trumps is not an exact parallel; all of the incoming first family will not live in the White House.

In a brief telephone interview about the auction, Eric Trump — who is expected to remain at the Trump Organization — said that he was trying to navigate the “new world” he is in since his father’s win.

“We’ve done this every year,” he said, referring to his foundation, which typically raises about $5 million annually, has a single paid staff member and gives almost all its revenues to St. Jude’s. “We utilized Charitybuzz to raise significant funds. Every single year we’ve auctioned off a lunch with one of ourselves. It’s nothing more than an effort to raise a lot of money in an effort to help sick children.”

In a statement, Ms. Trump said it was an “honor” to raise “additional money to benefit terminally ill children through the donation of my personal time.”

Charity auctions by celebrities and others are not uncommon, and Charitybuzz is a website that celebrities use to help raise money through auctions. (On the same site that listed Ms. Trump’s auction, a former New York Times editor raised money for a children’s charity by auctioning off a tour of The Times.)

The possible cancellation of the auction would be the second concession by Ms. Trump that she might have overstepped ethical bounds. A jewelry company she owns apologized last month after a senior executive there sent out a notice to reporters promoting a $10,800 gold bracelet Ms. Trump had worn during a television interview with her father.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.



Officials in Washington have long accepted donations to charities from special interests pursuing favors. The charity of Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, accepts hundreds of thousands of dollars from the pharmaceutical industry, and the Congressional Black Caucus takes in millions of dollars annually from corporate donors that are pushing legislation in Congress.




Even with the coffee auction in doubt, the Trump family is pushing other charitable events. Eric Trump has scheduled a charitable fund-raiser in late February at the family’s Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida, where $25,000 “Gold Level” sponsors will be given special access.

Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a nonprofit organization that promotes limiting the influence of special interests, said the role of Ms. Trump and her brother in the fund-raising effort seemed “highly inappropriate” because they were offering access in exchange for money.

Federal employees have strict restrictions on charitable solicitations, but the provision does not apply to the president.

“This is just wrong,” Mr. Wertheimer said of the auction to have coffee with Ms. Trump. “The president’s family should not be out raising money for whatever cause, in exchange for a potential influence buyer who wants to get his views to the president.”

Time with Ms. Trump clearly comes at a premium. Tony Podesta, a lobbyist and the brother of Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, also happens to be on the same Charitybuzz website offering lunch in exchange for a charitable donation.

The Podesta auction closed on Thursday with Tony Podesta, whose firm calls itself “A King of K Street,” having drawn just four bids, reaching $1,750 a couple of hours before it closed. The final bidding price is not public.

“Not a surprise that more people want to meet her than me,” Tony Podesta said in an interview Thursday. “She is sort of priceless right now. She is a great businesswoman. She is a really interesting person, and she is right in the middle of what is the biggest political change the United States has gone through since Roosevelt.”




Ms. Trump, who is disengaging from the Trump Organization where she is executive vice president, has signaled a desire to be involved in policy, working on pay equity for women and talking to her father about climate change.

She has interviewed candidates to work for her as chief of staff as she prepares for a possible role in the administration. She also plans to lobby members of Congress, in conjunction with the Republican Main Street Partnership, to expand child care, said Sarah Chamberlain, the partnership’s president. “We are thrilled to have her,” Ms. Chamberlain said Thursday.

She and Mr. Kushner have examined how he could join the administration without violating anti-nepotism laws. He is looking at having a staff and an office in the White House, although no final decisions have been made.

A number of the transition team’s executive committee meetings have been on the 25th floor of Trump Tower, where three of Mr. Trump’s adult children have offices, according to two people present for the briefings.

The president-elect said in a Twitter message this week that Donald and Eric would run the business going forward.

As of Thursday evening, the highest bid for the coffee auction — $67,888 — had come from Russell Ybarra, the Tex-Mex restaurant-chain owner, who said in an interview Thursday that he wanted to urge Ms. Trump to persuade her father not to go too far in restricting immigration laws. Many of the employees at his 14 restaurants are immigrants, and he said he already had a hard time finding workers.

“I believe Ivanka is more open-minded a person you can reason with,” Mr. Ybarra said, just before he went back on the website and increased his bid.




“I’m sure it will go MUCH higher,” he wrote in an email, unaware that the Trump family was considering canceling the auction. “Either way, it keeps it exciting.”

By early Friday, the high bid had risen to $72,888.

The contest to have coffee with Ms. Trump comes with strict rules. A background check by the Secret Service is required, according to Charitybuzz, and the Trump Organization retained the right to shut down the meeting, which was to be held sometime after January at the Trump Tower in New York or the Trump International Hotel, near the White House.

“All winning bidders and their guests to conduct themselves appropriately,” the contest rules say. “Polite manners and respect for the generous donor and adherence to any rules or parameters are a must.”
A federal judge on Friday gave final approval to a $25 million agreement to settle fraud claims arising from Donald J. Trump’s for-profit education venture, Trump University, rejecting a last-minute objection to the deal.

The judge, Gonzalo P. Curiel, in San Diego, issued his order after considering a challenge from Sherri Simpson, a former Trump University student from Fort Lauderdale, Fla., whose lawyers say she should have had a chance to opt out of the class-action settlement and individually sue President Trump, perhaps forcing a trial.

The civil settlement was not enough for Ms. Simpson, who wanted to see Mr. Trump tried on criminal racketeering charges. She also wanted an apology.

But Judge Curiel, in his ruling, sided with the class-action plaintiffs’ lawyers, who had urged him to approve the agreement, saying it was the best possible outcome for roughly 3,730 students. They could recoup more than 90 cents on the dollar of what they spent at Trump University.

“The court finds that the amount offered in settlement is fair, adequate, and reasonable, and accordingly concludes that this factor weighs in favor of final approval,” wrote Judge Curiel, who approved the agreement and dismissed the objection in a 31-page order. It is subject to appeal.

The approval of the settlement, assuming it stands, brings to a close a case that garnered outsize national attention during Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. He faced two suits in California and one in New York brought by Eric T. Schneiderman, the state attorney general.

The suits contended that Trump University students had been cheated out of thousands of dollars in tuition through high-pressure sales techniques and false claims about what they would learn. Mr. Trump and his lawyers continued to deny those claims, even after the settlement was first announced in November, soon after his election.

Mr. Schneiderman, in a statement, said the settlement would provide “relief — and hopefully much-needed closure — to the victims of Donald Trump’s fraudulent university.”

The plaintiff’s lawyers — who said they would waive their fees after years of litigating the case — applauded the decision, with one of them, Jason Forge, saying in an interview that it would be “bulletproof” if appealed. Mr. Forge said he was satisfied that former students, some of them elderly, would receive sizable payments as a result of the deal. “Once in a long while, this profession yields some good feelings,” he said. “This is one of those times.”

As they pushed for approval of the settlement, the plaintiffs’ lawyers said that the objection could cause delays in settlement checks being distributed or disrupt the deal by exposing Mr. Trump to individual lawsuits from former students like Ms. Simpson.

“What she is looking for is an apology, and you can’t get that,” Patrick Coughlin, another of the plaintiffs’ lawyers, said at a court hearing on Thursday.

Ms. Simpson’s lawyer, Gary Friedman, argued in court on Thursday that it was “not fair” for the case to reach “the point of settlement and say, ‘We’re not giving you the chance to opt out.’” When Judge Curiel reiterated during the hearing that a jury trial could lead to less favorable results, Mr. Friedman said, “That is a risk analysis that Sherri Simpson has the right to make.”

It is unclear if Ms. Simpson will appeal, and Mr. Friedman did not return messages seeking comment.

In a court filing last week, Mr. Trump’s lawyers asked the judge to give final approval to the settlement. Mr. Trump was motivated to agree to the sweeping deal because it would resolve the claims and avoid trial. His lawyers did not respond to request for comment.

Mr. Trump rebutted the fraud claims during his presidential bid, at one point questioning Judge Curiel’s impartiality based on his Mexican heritage. He pointed to positive reviews of the program and vowed to reopen the university after what he said would be a victory at trial.

His political opponents seized on the allegations, and angry former students — including Ms. Simpson — spoke out, painting Mr. Trump as a huckster who had conned ordinary people for personal profit.

After his election in November, Mr. Trump reversed course and agreed to pay $25 million to resolve the litigation. He did not admit fault, and he maintained in posts on Twitter after the settlement announcement that he “did not have the time to go through a long but winning trial on Trump U.”

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.


The case was scheduled to go to trial late last year, setting up a situation in which Mr. Trump would have probably had to testify during his transition to the White House.

At trial, Mr. Trump would have faced reams of evidence about the business practices of Trump University. Dozens of students and instructors wrote sworn statements describing their experiences, with some calling it a fraud or describing how they were taken advantage of. Other materials, among them sales playbooks, described a technique that used “the roller coaster of emotions” to persuade students to pay for courses costing as much as $35,000 for the “Gold Elite” program.

The plaintiffs’ lawyers were surprised and disappointed that Ms. Simpson objected to the settlement, fearing that it would delay payments to other students for months, if not years.

Judge Curiel, who has overseen the case for the last four years, said at the hearing Thursday that the amount of money the plaintiffs would recover in the settlement was “extraordinary.” He said there would be significant hurdles to reaching a similar settlement during a trial.

Ms. Simpson’s lawyers argued that a 2015 notice to students about the class-action case gave the impression that they would have an opportunity to be excluded from a settlement at a later date. The class-action lawyers say that it was abundantly clear that students were required to opt out in 2015, and that Ms. Simpson’s lawyers mischaracterized the notice.

Judge Curiel wrote in his decision that t there is “no blanket rule that due process requires a settlement-stage opt-out opportunity.”

In 2010, Ms. Simpson, who is a lawyer herself, spent about $19,000 on Trump University programs. After the agreement was announced, she submitted a claim to partake in the settlement, before filing the objection.

In an interview earlier this week, Ms. Simpson said she hoped her objection would not “blow up the settlement.” But she said she believed she could fare better at trial.

“For him to go out there and say, well, ‘I didn’t do anything wrong,’ it’s disgusting,” she said. “I want an apology.”
The investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election has expanded to include President Trump’s family business, with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, subpoenaing the Trump Organization for documents related to Russia.

For more than 30 years, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to conduct business in Russia. He traveled to Moscow in 1987 to explore building a hotel. He applied for his trademark in the country as early as 1996. And his children and associates have met with Russian developers and government officials on multiple occasions in search of joint ventures.

But the company says nothing has come of it. Mr. Trump tweeted in January last year, shortly before his inauguration: “I HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIA — NO DEALS, NO LOANS, NO NOTHING!”

So what about the Trump Organization’s Russian connections might be of interest to Mr. Mueller?

Mr. Trump with Felix Sater, right, in 2005. Mr. Sater discussed a possible Trump Moscow project with Mr. Cohen.

Cyrus McCrimmon/The Denver Post, via Getty s



Mr. Trump with Felix Sater, right, in 2005. Mr. Sater discussed a possible Trump Moscow project with Mr. Cohen.Cyrus McCrimmon/The Denver Post, via Getty s
There Was a Moscow Hotel Deal in the Works During the Campaign
Perhaps the closest Mr. Trump came to launching a real estate project in Russia was during the presidential campaign, when he signed a letter of intent in late 2015 for a Trump hotel to be built in Moscow. Ultimately, the deal never materialized.

In email exchanges with Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, Felix Sater, a Russian émigré who had previously helped develop Trump SoHo in New York, talked about securing financing for the Moscow project from VTB, a major state-owned Russian bank under American sanctions. He also mused about how the deal, if supported by Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, would “fix relations between the countries by showing everyone that commerce & business are much better and more practical than politics.”

“I will get Putin on this program and we will get Donald elected,” Mr. Sater wrote in one of the emails.

Mr. Trump signed the letter of intent with Andrey Rozov, a developer of retail and residential projects in the Moscow region. If the deal went through, Mr. Trump would receive a $4 million upfront fee in exchange for licensing his name, and his company would manage the completed hotel.

By January 2016, the project seemed to have stalled. At one point, without success, Mr. Cohen emailed an aide to Mr. Putin seeking help jump-starting it. There is no evidence the Kremlin provided any assistance for the project.



Why the Director of ‘Anchorman’ Decided to Take On Dick Cheney

Harry Reid Has a Few Words for Washington

A $21,000 Cosmetology School Debt, and a $9-an-Hour Job
The Trump Organization has said that it received no government approvals or financing and that the effort was abandoned in early 2016.

Mr. Trump with Aras Agalarov, left, a Russian real estate developer, and Gabriela Isler, the 2013 Miss Universe. The pageant that year was held in Moscow.

Irina Bujor/Kommersant.ru, via Associated Press




Mr. Trump with Aras Agalarov, left, a Russian real estate developer, and Gabriela Isler, the 2013 Miss Universe. The pageant that year was held in Moscow.Irina Bujor/Kommersant.ru, via Associated Press
Mr. Trump Took Miss Universe to Moscow and ‘Met the Top People’
Mr. Trump’s business opportunities in Russia got little traction until he took the Miss Universe pageant to Moscow in 2013.

A father-son pair of real estate developers, Aras and Emin Agalarov, paid nearly $20 million to license the Miss Universe name, bringing the contest to their Crocus City Hall in Moscow. As an owner of the pageant, Mr. Trump flew to Russia in November 2013 to participate. He became friendly with his partners, who were known to have been helpful to the Kremlin.

The visit left an impression on Mr. Trump and had him contemplating future endeavors with the Agalarovs.

“I had a great weekend with you and your family,” Mr. Trump posted on Twitter in a message to Aras Agalarov. “You have done a FANTASTIC job. TRUMP TOWER-MOSCOW is next,” he wrote, before referring to Mr. Agalarov’s son, a pop star: “EMIN was WOW!”

While the plans for the tower were apparently shelved during the campaign, Mr. Trump and the Agalarovs maintained their friendship.

In June 2016, a publicist for Emin Agalarov requested that Donald Trump Jr. meet with a Kremlin-connected lawyer. That meeting, at Trump Tower in New York, first reported by  last July, included other campaign officials and has been the subject of considerable scrutiny.

After the disclosure of the meeting, the president downplayed his ties to the Agalarovs in an interview with The Times. But in a September 2015 interview on “The Hugh Hewitt Show,” he had made the Miss Universe pageant seem far more important.

Subscribe to With Interest
Catch up and prep for the week ahead with this newsletter of the most important business insights, delivered Sundays.


“I called it my weekend in Moscow,” Mr. Trump said. “I was with the top-level people, both oligarchs and generals, and top-of-the-government people. I can’t go further than that, but I will tell you that I met the top people, and the relationship was extraordinary.”

Deutsche Bank, which has done business with Mr. Trump over the years, paid more than $600 million in penalties over money laundering.




Deutsche Bank, which has done business with Mr. Trump over the years, paid more than $600 million in penalties over money laundering.Michael Probst/Associated Press
The Trumps’ German Bank Paid Fines in a Russian Money-Laundering Case
Two decades ago, Mr. Trump was a persona non grata on Wall Street. His casino and hotel businesses had suffered some bankruptcies, and his lenders were grumbling that he had stiffed them.

But one giant German bank stepped up as a willing partner.

Over the years, that institution, Deutsche Bank, offered Mr. Trump more than $4 billion in loan commitments and potential bond offerings, a majority of which were completed, The Times reported last year.

There is no indication of a Russian connection to Mr. Trump’s loans or accounts at Deutsche Bank, and there is no public evidence that Mr. Mueller has subpoenaed the bank for records about Mr. Trump.

But the bank last year landed in legal trouble over Russian money laundering — paying more than $600 million in penalties to American and British regulators.

Some Deutsche Bank executives expect they will eventually have to produce records as part of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry, The Times  reported last July. The bank has already been asked to turn over documents to federal prosecutors in Brooklyn about another client with a White House connection: the Kushner Companies, the family business of Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and adviser.

A mansion in Palm Beach, Fla., that Mr. Trump sold to a Russian billionaire for $95 million. Mr. Trump had bought it just a few years earlier for about $41 million.

Steve Mitchell/Associated Press




A mansion in Palm Beach, Fla., that Mr. Trump sold to a Russian billionaire for $95 million. Mr. Trump had bought it just a few years earlier for about $41 million.Steve Mitchell/Associated Press
A Russian Oligarch Bought a Trump Mansion at a High Price
Dmitry Rybolovlev, a Russian billionaire oligarch, paid $95 million for Mr. Trump’s oceanfront mansion in Palm Beach, Fla., one of two sources of income from Russians that Mr. Trump’s lawyers have said were reflected in his income tax returns. (The other was $12.2 million in payments in connection with holding the Miss Universe pageant in Moscow.)

The Palm Beach deal was unusual for several reasons.

Mr. Trump sold the house less than four years after buying it for about $41 million. Mr. Rybolovlev paid the markup despite buying the property in 2008, at the height of the housing crisis. And Mr. Trump had made few improvements to the mansion, which reportedly had a mold problem.

Mr. Rybolovlev, moreover, never lived in the property.

At the time of the sale, Mr. Trump was facing financial pressure. He potentially owed Deutsche Bank $40 million after not paying off a loan for his Chicago hotel and tower.

The Florida property later featured prominently in Mr. Rybolovlev’s divorce.

Mr. Rybolovlev’s wife sought control of the mansion, saying he had bought it partly to hide money from her in the divorce, a claim he denied.

He has since demolished the mansion and divided the property into different parcels that he is selling. The new owners are hidden behind murky layers of trusts and other legal entities.

A spokesman for Mr. Rybolovlev disputed that he overpaid for the property, saying that the sale was negotiated down from an asking price of $125 million and that it predated an upheaval in the Palm Beach real estate market. The spokesman also said that the property was acquired by a family trust “specifically and explicitly for investment purposes,” and that depending on the sale price of the final lot, the investment might “end up yielding a decent return.”

A golf writer said that at a Trump course in Charlotte, N.C., in 2013, Eric Trump told him, “We have pretty much all the money we need from investors in Russia.”

Jacob Biba for




A golf writer said that at a Trump course in Charlotte, N.C., in 2013, Eric Trump told him, “We have pretty much all the money we need from investors in Russia.”Jacob Biba for
There Were Boasts That Russian Money Helped Pay for Golf Courses and Other Projects
In the past decade, the Trump Organization has bought and refurbished several golf courses around the world, but the financing behind those deals remains something of a mystery. A respected golf writer says that Eric Trump, a son of Mr. Trump’s who is now helping to run the Trump Organization, told him the money came from Russia.

Last year, during an interview on Boston public radio, the golf journalist James Dodson recounted a conversation he had had with Eric Trump in 2013 on a newly opened Trump golf course in Charlotte, N.C. Mr. Dodson said he had asked Mr. Trump about the company’s sources of funds, and Mr. Trump told him, “We have pretty much all the money we need from investors in Russia.”

Eric Trump has denied making the comment about Russia, but several of Mr. Dodson’s friends and colleagues confirmed that Mr. Dodson relayed the anecdote to them shortly after the conversation took place.

It was not the first time that one of Mr. Trump’s sons made a similar claim. In 2008, at a real estate conference in New York, Donald Trump Jr. said: “In terms of high-end product influx into the U.S., Russians make up a pretty disproportionate cross-section of a lot of our assets, say in Dubai, and certainly with our project in SoHo and anywhere in New York. We see a lot of money pouring in from Russia.”
When Tiah Joo Kim arrived at the Manhattan headquarters of the Trump Organization to pitch a hotel and condominium project in Vancouver, British Columbia, he expected the famous company with ventures across the globe to come with capacious offices and a staff of hundreds. Instead, he was led through a mere two floors with what appeared to be no more than a few dozen employees. “Lean,” Mr. Tiah, a young Malaysian developer, remembers thinking as he walked the halls.

The first stop was a conference room, where Mr. Tiah was required to sell his vision to the boss’s three oldest children. Only after securing their support did he advance to the inner sanctum, with its sweeping views of Central Park.

Mr. Tiah was not sure what to expect from the man whose face was beamed around the world through the reality television show “The Apprentice,” but the conversation that afternoon in 2012 was casual and warm. Donald J. Trump spent more time showing off a Shaquille O’Neal shoe and a Mike Tyson championship belt — prize artifacts from his display of sports memorabilia — than interrogating Mr. Tiah on the details of his business plan. “You’re a good-looking guy,” Mr. Tiah recalled Mr. Trump telling him as he gave the project his blessing.

Then Mr. Trump’s trusted lawyers and other top executives swooped in to play hardball — working alongside Donald Trump Jr. to negotiate the confidential agreements that would allow the Vancouver development to be branded with Mr. Trump’s name and managed by his company. The talks consumed 16-hour days for nearly a week, Mr. Tiah said, explaining: “It was tiring. They’re tough.”




That is the way business has been done at the Trump Organization, a relatively small company with a big reach and a bigger self- that has come under intense scrutiny as its chief prepares to become president of the United States.

With extensive entanglements around the world, many packaged in a network of licensing agreements and limited liability companies, the Trump Organization poses a raft of potential conflicts of interest for a president-elect who has long exerted such control over his company that, as he told  in a recent interview, he is the one who signs the checks. “I like to sign checks so I know what is going on,” he explained.

Mr. Trump — owner of all but the smallest sliver of the privately held company — has said that, while the law does not require it, he is formulating plans to remove himself and his older daughter, Ivanka, from the company’s operations. (Ms. Trump’s husband, Jared Kushner, is likely to have a role in the White House.) His sons Donald Jr. and Eric, along with other executives, will be in charge, the president-elect wrote on Twitter in mid-December, adding that “no new deals will be done during my term(s) in office.” People involved in the planning have said that Mr. Trump intends to keep a stake in the business.

But in recent weeks, amid rising pressure, Mr. Trump and his advisers have been intensely debating further measures. Among other things, the president-elect has agreed to shut down his personal foundation, has ended some international development deals and has reviewed a plan for an outside monitor to oversee the Trump Organization.

Yet an examination of the company underscores the complex challenges of taking Mr. Trump out of Trump the organization.



A Day, a Life: When a Medic Was Killed in Gaza, Was It an Accident?

Rebuilding a Puerto Rico Barrio: ‘Dead Is the Only Way They’ll Ever Get Me to Leave’

The 20 Best TV Dramas Since ‘The Sopranos’




His company is a distinctly family business fortified with longtime loyalists that operates less on standardized procedures and more on a culture of Trump. Mr. Trump may leave the details of contracts to his deputies, but his name — and influence — is stamped on every deal the company does.

In an interview last spring with The Times, Mr. Trump explained that he approved new ventures based on his personal “feel.” And while in recent years his three oldest children have taken on more of a leadership role, Mr. Trump has the final say, sometimes weighing in on the most minute design details of planned hotels, golf courses or other properties the company owns or manages.

His other top executives — many of them natives of Queens, where Mr. Trump grew up, or Brooklyn, where his father, Fred, expanded a housing empire many years ago — have secured power not necessarily through fancy pedigrees or impressive credentials, but through decades of devotion to their boss.

Allen Weisselberg, the organization’s chief financial officer, started off as an accountant for Mr. Trump’s father. Matthew Calamari, the organization’s chief operating officer, was recruited in 1981 after Mr. Trump saw him eject some hecklers while working security at the United States Open tennis tournament.

For some executives, there appears to be little division between their service to the company and their service to the Trumps.

“We’re not a publicly traded company. At the end of the day, I work for the Trump family,” Alan Garten, the general counsel, explained in an interview with the legal industry publication Corporate Counsel shortly before the election. “That’s how I view my job. Whether it’s protecting their business interests or protecting their personal interests. I am here to assist them and represent them in any way they need.”

When asked to elaborate in an interview last week with The Times, Mr. Garten said that in any job, “you want to be as helpful as you can,” but that “obviously the interests of the Trumps and the interests of the company are two distinct things.”

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.





The divisions between business and politics were often fuzzy during the presidential race: Mr. Garten became a “liaison” to Mr. Trump’s campaign; Michael Cohen, an executive vice president, tirelessly promoted his boss’s bid for the White House on television while battling negative media coverage; and Jason Greenblatt, the company’s chief legal officer, began serving as his adviser on Israel. On Friday, it was announced that Mr. Greenblatt would be joining Mr. Trump’s administration as a special representative for international negotiations.

After the election, other lines continued to blur as the president-elect and his children met with foreign businessmen with connections to their global ventures and with foreign officials with potential influence over their business dealings.

Some government-ethics lawyers have warned that unless Mr. Trump fully divests himself from the company and places someone independent of his family in charge, he risks entering the White House in violation of a constitutional clause that forbids him from taking payments or gifts from a foreign government entity.

As Mr. Trump assumes the presidency, it is difficult to foresee him walling himself off from the company entirely, said Michael D’Antonio, the author of a critical biography, “The Truth About Trump.”

“I don’t think that he could keep himself from inquiring about the performance of these businesses any more than he can keep himself from tweeting,” Mr. D’Antonio said. “It is just too vital to his identity. Profit is the way he has always measured himself. I don’t see how he can stop.”

Mr. Trump in his office at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan. Photographs of the rich and powerful adorn his office walls, and his desk often overflows with papers, evidence of his refusal to communicate by email.

Josh Haner/



Mr. Trump in his office at Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan. Photographs of the rich and powerful adorn his office walls, and his desk often overflows with papers, evidence of his refusal to communicate by email.Josh Haner/
‘Mom and Pop’ Shop
Mr. Trump may have business interests around the world, but his power is concentrated at a single Midtown Manhattan address: 725 Fifth Avenue. With a gleaming exterior that shoots to the sky, a lobby decked with marble and a collection of high-end tenants, Trump Tower is his primary residence as well as his company’s headquarters.

To get to work, Mr. Trump steps onto the private elevator in his gilded three-story penthouse, presses 26 and waits a matter of seconds. When the doors open, he is at his office, surrounded by Mr. Garten, Mr. Weisselberg and other top executives. One floor down are the offices of Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka Trump, who joined the company in the 2000s and are now his top deputies and advance guard.




David Brecher, the chief executive of FM Home Loans, visited the Trump Organization about a decade ago to discuss a potential partnership and found the aesthetics telling.

“Donald’s floor,” he said, recalling a swirl of gold trim and hues, “is very his style.”

“The kids,” by contrast, “have a very cool floor. Sleek. Marble.”

Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s elder daughter, in her office at Trump Tower. She is considered to be the second-most powerful person at the organization. The president-elect has said that he is formulating plans to remove himself and Ivanka from the company’s operations.




Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s elder daughter, in her office at Trump Tower. She is considered to be the second-most powerful person at the organization. The president-elect has said that he is formulating plans to remove himself and Ivanka from the company’s operations.Rebecca Greenfield
Photographs of Mr. Trump with the rich and powerful adorn his office walls, and his desk often overflows with papers, evidence of his refusal to communicate by email.

When Mr. Trump wants to talk to someone, he calls out to his assistant, Rhona Graff, a Queens native whose office is right outside his door. She has been his gatekeeper for decades. Anyone seeking access to him over the phone has to go through Ms. Graff, sometimes with a secret code.

Mr. Trump often boasts of the size of the Trump Organization. “It’s a big company,” he said in the interview last spring. A spokeswoman said the business employed “tens of thousands.”

But industry experts estimate that no more than 4,000 people work for the Trump Organization worldwide. And executives say that the three floors that make up the headquarters appear to have no more than 150 employees.

It is a family business, as everyone involved is quick to explain. And the management structure is informal if not confusing, with deputies constantly buzzing in and out of the boss’s office.




“We kind of run a little bit like a mom-and-pop in that sense,” Donald Trump Jr. said in a 2011 deposition for a lawsuit involving a Florida development. “I guess there is an organizational chart, but in theory, there is not too many levels.” He added: “Could I make one? Yes. Is there one officially? Not that I’m aware of.”


Indeed, the elder Mr. Trump has tended to collect executives and assign duties through personal preference.

In 2004, Michelle Carlson was a young lawyer determined to move to California when a friend suggested that she meet with an acquaintance who could prove useful. She entered Mr. Trump’s office hoping to secure a recommendation she could use to find work with real estate developers in Los Angeles, and she encountered a warm welcome.

“I heard there was this nice Atlanta girl in the lobby,” she remembered Mr. Trump saying as he offered her a seat. Then came a series of direct questions: What were her responsibilities at her current job? How did she view her own strengths? In what areas did she want to grow?

Forty-five minutes later, Mr. Trump was convinced: “I’m not going to give you any recommendations in L.A. I’m going to hire you,” Mr. Trump told Ms. Carlson, who went on to spend almost four years as his assistant general counsel, often working 18-hour days with a small team of lawyers while taking on other responsibilities in the real estate division.

Andrew Weiss, a Romanian immigrant who grew up in Brooklyn, was hired straight out of graduate school in 1981, just as Mr. Trump was starting to make his mark. Thirty-five years later, having weathered many highs and lows with Mr. Trump, including the spectacular failure of his Atlantic City casinos, Mr. Weiss is still by his side, as executive vice president for development and construction.

Mr. Calamari, who started out as a bodyguard, also saw his role expand as he remained committed to his boss. Five years ago, his son Matthew Calamari Jr. joined the Trump Organization as a security guard. Today, he is the director of surveillance. Brian Baudreau, the general manager of the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas, began as a driver for Mr. Trump.




“My father knows how to find talent in people,” Eric Trump said, recalling how Mr. Baudreau used to chauffeur him to school. “He’s totally family,” he added.

Devotion is rewarded.

“To succeed in this company,” Mr. Garten said, “you have to be skilled, highly dedicated and highly loyal.”

Some appear to be hired based on other calculations.

For more than a decade, Ronald C. Lieberman oversaw the concession contracts for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, a post that required him to represent the interests of the city in a variety of deals with Mr. Trump.

Then, in 2007, Mr. Lieberman began working for a new employer. In his job as executive vice president for management and development at the Trump Organization, he has helped Mr. Trump win contracts to operate the Central Park carousel and the Ferry Point golf course in the Bronx, the very projects he handled on behalf of the city for years.

Ivanka Trump is generally seen as the second-most powerful person at the Trump Organization, while the 11 other executive vice presidents are all men — and all white.

There have been other senior female executives, like Cathy Hoffman Glosser, who oversaw the Trump Organization’s expansion into branding deals, part of its shift from building and buying real estate to selling the Trump name. (She left the company last year and did not respond to interview requests. Ms. Carlson said she left by choice to care for her baby, even though Mr. Trump made earnest attempts to keep her.)

Mr. Garten said that outside the top executive ranks, “there’s greater diversity in terms of gender and ethnicity,” adding, “I don’t have the numbers in front of me.”




Jill Martin, a vice president and assistant general counsel for litigation and employment, said in an interview last spring that diversity at the company was “less forced” than at the law firms where she previously worked.

“With the firms, there was a lot of attention placed on gender and ethnicity and trying to find the balance,” she said. “With the Trump Organization, I just felt like those things really fall by the wayside. What’s important is someone’s individual drive and talent.”

When Mr. Tiah was at Trump Tower to discuss the Vancouver partnership, he could not help noticing that female employees seemed to have something else in common.

“You have to be attractive?” he remembers thinking. “Is that a requirement?”

Mr. Trump with the casino tycoon Phil Ruffin in 2005 at the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas. Mr. Ruffin remarked how heavily Mr. Trump was involved in the particulars. “He didn’t want just a TV in the bathroom; it had to be in the mirror so you can watch when you’re shaving,” he said.

Ethan Miller/Getty s




Mr. Trump with the casino tycoon Phil Ruffin in 2005 at the ribbon-cutting ceremony for the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas. Mr. Ruffin remarked how heavily Mr. Trump was involved in the particulars. “He didn’t want just a TV in the bathroom; it had to be in the mirror so you can watch when you’re shaving,” he said.Ethan Miller/Getty s
Steeped in the Details
It was the mid-2000s, and Phil Ruffin was in search of a partner to develop a combined hotel and condominium tower on the Las Vegas Strip. Mr. Ruffin, a casino tycoon, owned the land, but he needed an investor, a brand name to license and a team to manage the construction and operations of the property.

Mr. Trump did not simply say yes to all three, Mr. Ruffin recalled. He threw himself into the details of the deal, pushing a bank to cut the interest rate on a loan by half, insisting that subcontractors lower their prices and requiring that everything about the 64-story tower reflect his taste.

“We’d tour, and he’d say, ‘This is wrong; this is right,’” Mr. Ruffin said. “The glass shower had to be etched glass because that’s the Trump way, more expensive. He didn’t want just a TV in the bathroom; it had to be in the mirror so you can watch when you’re shaving.”

Mr. Trump, he said, remained actively involved when the financial crisis hit in 2008, threatening the financial viability of the Las Vegas venture, and the two men flew to Washington to meet with a tax lawyer. As they pulled up chairs in his office, the lawyer encouraged the men to cut their losses and declare bankruptcy. It would provide them with a handsome tax deduction.




But Mr. Trump was adamant. “He said: ‘This is not Atlantic City; this is Las Vegas. I think it will recover,’” Mr. Ruffin said. Instead, he and Mr. Trump poured more money into the venture and continued to move forward.

Mr. Trump’s children have taken on increasing responsibility in recent years; they often solicit new projects and are the primary liaisons with partners. Two years ago, Eric Trump became the Trump Organization’s main point of contact for the Las Vegas tower, Mr. Ruffin said. Ivanka Trump initiated the leasing of the old Old Post Office building in Washington, envisioning it as a new Trump hotel.


But Mr. Trump has the final say on most deals, especially those involving his own money.

He has signed the licensing agreements, the leases — and the big checks. And the tangle of limited liability companies used to structure all of his deals revolve around a single point of power: Mr. Trump. As one former executive described it, the company is the “hub of a wheel, and he’s in the middle.”

The company adheres to few formal corporate guidelines or procedures.

When determining whether and how to enter business partnerships, nothing is decided by established committee, or through written recommendation by the children, Donald Trump Jr. explained in the 2011 deposition in the Florida case.

“Other companies can operate like bureaucrats” Mr. Tiah said. “They’re not like that.”

Even so, the executives are known for playing tough.

When seeking $470,000 in outstanding legal bills from the Trump Organization a decade ago, the lawyer Y. David Scharf accidentally included a single page of a separate legal bill to another client, the business magnate Carl C. Icahn.

How did Mr. Weisselberg, Mr. Trump’s chief financial officer, respond?

“Mr. Weisselberg threatened to call Mr. Icahn and utilize this inadvertent clerical error in an effort to embarrass Mr. Scharf and my firm — unless my firm agreed to a 50 percent discount on the outstanding legal bills,” David A. Piedra, a partner in Mr. Scharf’s firm, Morrison Cohen, wrote in a 2007 letter to a lawyer representing Mr. Trump.




“As I am sure you realize,” he wrote, “this threat, which smacks of extortion, is entirely inappropriate.”

Mr. Scharf said in an interview that his firm had resolved the matter and bore no ill will toward Mr. Weisselberg, the Trump Organization or Mr. Trump.

At the time of the election, Mr. Trump’s company was party to at least 75 lawsuits across the country, according to a nationwide tally by USA Today.

Mr. Garten said that not all of the lawsuits were substantial, but acknowledged that “we’re extremely hands-on and meticulous in the legal aspects of the business.”

Donald Trump Jr. with Matthew Calamari, the chief operating officer of the company, at Trump National Golf Club Westchester in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. Mr. Calamari was recruited in 1981 after Mr. Trump saw him eject some hecklers while working security at the United States Open tennis tournament.

Bobby Bank/Getty s




Donald Trump Jr. with Matthew Calamari, the chief operating officer of the company, at Trump National Golf Club Westchester in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. Mr. Calamari was recruited in 1981 after Mr. Trump saw him eject some hecklers while working security at the United States Open tennis tournament.Bobby Bank/Getty s
Formidable Loyalties
As their boss advanced in the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Trump’s executives remained fierce and aggressive.

When The Daily Beast was preparing to publish an article about Mr. Trump’s first wife, Ivana, alleging in a divorce deposition that he had raped her, Michael Cohen, one of the organization’s executive vice presidents, wrongly insisted it was impossible for a husband to rape his wife and made threats. He warned that if the reporter moved ahead with the article, “I’m going to mess your life up,” according to The Daily Beast’s account.

It was just one of the many ways that Mr. Cohen had cultivated the  of a pit bull, a reputation he said was well deserved.




“Mr. Trump is more than just a boss to those of us who have been fortunate enough to be close to him, both professionally and personally,” he said in an interview. “He’s more like a patriarch, a mentor. These qualities make him very endearing to me, which is why I am so fiercely loyal to him and committed to protecting him at all costs.”

He was not the only seemingly tireless proponent — and protector — of Mr. Trump’s political pursuits. Mr. Garten, the general counsel, defended his boss’s record and fought back against allegations that he had groped women and engaged in other sexual misconduct. At points it appeared as if he were threatening legal action on a daily basis against anyone who criticized Mr. Trump, including The Times and other news outlets.

Last December, after Mr. Garten dangled the possibility of legal action against a “super PAC” promoting Jeb Bush and sent a cease-and-desist letter to an anti-tax group that ran $1 million in ads against Mr. Trump, supporters of Mr. Bush complained to the Federal Election Commission that the Trump Organization was illegally acting as an agent for the Trump campaign.

“Trump and his agents have explicitly directed his corporate attorneys at the Organization to do the dirty work for the campaign,” a lawyer wrote in the complaint, which is pending.

Six months later, Mr. Garten began to appear in the campaign’s financial reports. In the end, he was compensated by Mr. Trump for about $24,000 of legal work for the campaign and donated thousands more dollars’ worth of services as an in-kind contribution.

Mr. Garten said he saw many of the attacks on Mr. Trump as an attack on the company. It was his job to fight back, he said.

‘A Real Family Affair’
The president-elect’s deliberations over how to separate himself from his company coincided with one of its oldest and most celebrated traditions.




Jill Cremer, a former vice president at the Trump Organization, fondly recalls company Christmas parties at the Plaza Hotel, the Pierre or the Rainbow Room. Mr. Trump would hand out prizes — airline tickets, luggage, cameras — and would pose with employees for photos.


“The Christmas party was always the highlight,” Ms. Cremer said. “It was a real family affair.”

This year, the celebration fell on Dec. 14, two nights after Mr. Trump said he would postpone announcing the details of his plan for the stewardship of the company.

He was facing a flurry of activity, including making cabinet picks and navigating calls with foreign leaders, but he found the time to stop by the atrium of Trump Tower, where the party has been held in recent years.

As hundreds of Trump Organization employees and guests nibbled on steak from Trump Grill and sipped wine from Trump Winery, Mr. Trump thanked the crowd for helping build the company that bears his name.

“You could see the love in the room,” Eric Trump said.
The Trump Organization said on Thursday it had rejected a proposed Dallas hotel project with a real estate firm that had attracted scrutiny for its vast foreign ties to Russia, Kazakhstan and at least two dozen other countries.

The firm, Alterra Worldwide, was the only publicly identified potential partner in the Trump Organization’s domestic hotel expansion plans. Alterra’s president, Mukemmel Sarimsakci, who was born in Turkey and calls himself the “Turkish Trump,” planned to buy property in downtown Dallas on which the hotel was to be built.

The Trump Organization said that in addition to having questions about the firm’s sprawling foreign ties, it objected to Mr. Sarimsakci’s prematurely publicizing the hotel plans in the news media when there was no final agreement.

“We clearly retreated from this particular deal,” Eric Danziger, the head of the Trump Organization’s hotel division, said on Thursday.

Of Mr. Sarimsakci, who did not respond to requests for comment, Mr. Danziger said, “we wish him well.”

The Dallas Morning News reported on Wednesday that Mr. Sarimsakci had told Dallas officials he was abandoning the deal because of local resistance to a project involving the Trumps. Mr. Danziger disputed that Mr. Sarimsakci was the one to walk away from the project and said that the Trump Organization was pursuing six other hotel projects in the Dallas region that did not involve Alterra.

The unraveling of the proposed Alterra deal demonstrates the complexities facing the Trump Organization as it seeks to expand the reach of the family business while its founder occupies the White House. The process of choosing suitable business partners is saddled with political and ethical considerations, including the possibility of foreign entanglements and conflicts of interest.

 reported last month that private emails, archived websites and other records showed that Alterra Worldwide had extensive international ties that had caused some concern among Trump Organization lawyers. Mr. Sarimsakci originally said he would fund the Dallas project with money from Turkey and Kazakhstan, among other places.

The Times also reported that Mr. Sarimsakci’s brother and business partner, Yusuf Sarimsakci, had helped oversee the development of the Ritz-Carlton in Moscow near the Kremlin, and had worked with an array of companies shrouded in corporate secrecy and based in tax havens like the British Virgin Islands. Yusuf Sarimsakci was not accused of any wrongdoing.



Robotic Milkers and an Automated Greenhouse: Inside a High-Tech Small Farm

The Insect Apocalypse Is Here

In 12 Minutes, Everything Went Wrong
Last year, the Trump Organization, now largely run by President Trump’s eldest sons, Eric and Donald Jr., began pursuing a deal with Alterra and seeking agreements with dozens of other partners across the country for its new Scion hotel brand, a less-expensive alternative to its five-star line.

The potential pairing with Alterra became an early test of the Trump Organization’s process for approving deals while Mr. Trump is in the White House.

To manage ethical concerns, the company has hired an outside adviser to review potential agreements and has also vowed to forgo new deals abroad to limit possible conflicts of interest.

If the company had moved ahead with an Alterra partnership, however, it was poised to essentially import those international connections. The ethics adviser, Bobby Burchfield, raised questions about the potential sources of financing and about Yusuf Sarimsakci’s ties to Russia, according to a person briefed on the process, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private deliberations.

In response, Mukemmel Sarimsakci said that his brother would not be involved in the hotel project and that the money for it would come primarily from domestic sources. But before those claims could be verified, Trump Organization executives decided not to move ahead with an agreement.

The decision came down to a number of factors, according to Mr. Danziger, who said that the company’s other potential deals in the Dallas area were more attractive. He took particular issue with Mr. Sarimsakci’s decision to publicly promote his possible partnership with the Trumps.

The other potential Scion deals being considered in the Dallas region, Mr. Danziger said, would “undergo the same rigorous process for approval.”

Subscribe to With Interest
Catch up and prep for the week ahead with this newsletter of the most important business insights, delivered Sundays.


The potential Alterra partnership was one of many Scion deals in the works for the Trump Organization. The Trumps plan to manage the properties while their partners own and develop them.

Mr. Danziger said last month that the Trump Organization had signed at least 30 letters of intent with developers, including Alterra, but that none of the deals had been finalized. He singled out the Dallas market as a particularly good fit for the Scion brand.

But he cautioned that up to half the deals might not come to fruition.

The company’s experience with Alterra highlights the way that some cities may not be particularly welcoming to the Trumps’ business plans. Before it ever got off the ground, the Scion venture in Dallas was met by protesters and by reluctance on the part of some city officials, including Philip Kingston, a Democratic member of the City Council. Mr. Kingston said he had advised Mr. Sarimsakci, “The president is a bad brand.”

According to Mr. Kingston, Mr. Sarimsakci told him and another council member opposed to the Trump Organization’s interest in Dallas that Alterra had split with the Trumps because of local opposition. Mr. Kingston said that Mr. Sarimsakci planned to move ahead with a different hotel operator.
WASHINGTON — A pair of groups supporting President Trump say they raised $30 million last year, then spent tens of thousands of those dollars at the Trump International Hotel here and on payments to a few Trump loyalists like the former campaign manager Corey Lewandowski and the former Milwaukee County sheriff David A. Clarke Jr., according to new campaign finance reports and news reports.

Of the millions raised, at least $1 million came from a coal company that has gained extraordinary access to the Trump administration to push for pro-coal policy changes.

The campaign finance reports shed light on a network of groups that were formed to support Mr. Trump, but have spent less than other groups bolstering his agenda, while steering money to the president’s businesses and his most ardent surrogates.

One of the groups — a “super PAC” called America First Action — spent nearly $33,000 at the Trump International Hotel, primarily on events for donors, and paid tens of thousands of dollars each to Mr. Lewandowski; Brad Parscale, a digital strategist for Mr. Trump’s campaign; and Katrina Pierson, a campaign spokeswoman. Those figures were revealed in a report filed on Wednesday with the Federal Election Commission, which shows that the group raised $4 million last year.




An affiliated nonprofit group, America First Policies, raised $26 million last year, according to a report by Axios. That group is registered under a section of the tax code — 501(c)(4) — that allows it to shield most information about its finances, including the identity of its donors.

The America First groups have been viewed as something of an enigma in campaign finance circles. While many of the Republican Party’s traditional elite donors have publicly kept their distance from the groups, the organizations have the blessing of the administration and have projected confidence in their fund-raising.

But Republican operatives have grumbled that the amount the groups say they have raised have dwarfed the amount they have spent to support Mr. Trump’s political and policy goals during his first year in office.

Reports filed with the election commission show that the groups combined to spend about $3.2 million — just over 10 percent of what they raised — supporting Republican candidates in special elections, including former Senator Luther Strange and Roy S. Moore, who lost their bids for an Alabama Senate seat, and Karen Handel, who won her House campaign in Georgia.



Paramount Was Hollywood’s ‘Mountain.’ Now It’s a Molehill.

Black Male Writers for Our Time

The Itsy-Bitsy, Teenie-Weenie, Very Litigious Bikini




Figures provided by a Republican ad buyer indicate that the groups spent an additional $2.8 million on television ads promoting efforts championed by Mr. Trump to overhaul the tax code and repeal the Affordable Care Act, though there were no records of television ad spending by the groups since the passage last month of the tax overhaul. Other Republican groups have been advertising heavily this year to bolster public approval of the tax overhaul, which is considered critical to the party’s midterm election prospects this year.

America First Action paid $55,000 to a firm owned by Corey Lewandowski, President Trump's former campaign manager.

Erin Schaff for



America First Action paid $55,000 to a firm owned by Corey Lewandowski, President Trump's former campaign manager.Erin Schaff for
Brian O. Walsh, the president of America First Policies, said the group had paid for online ads “highlighting President Trump’s leadership on key issues.” Those ads can be harder to track, and Mr. Walsh declined to provide an “item-by-item breakdown at this time.”

A person close to the groups told Axios that they had $14 million in the bank headed into this year, which could provide the basis for a major midterm election campaign.

But very few of the party’s elite donors were listed among the contributors to America First Action in the report filed on Wednesday with the election commission.

By far the biggest donor was the Los Angeles developer Geoffrey H. Palmer, who donated $2 million of the $3.7 million raised in the second half of the year by America First Action. Mr. Palmer donated generously in 2016, giving $3 million to a different super PAC that supported Mr. Trump, and an additional $310,000 to a committee associated with Mr. Trump’s campaign.

An additional $1 million came from Murray Energy, a coal company based in Ohio that has assiduously courted Mr. Trump as it pressed the new administration to repeal President Barack Obama’s climate change policies intended to shut down old coal-burning power plants. The company had previously donated a combined $550,000 to help fund the Republican convention in Cleveland and Mr. Trump’s inauguration.

In the weeks after Mr. Trump’s inauguration, Murray’s chief executive officer, Robert E. Murray, wrote confidential memos to Vice President Mike Pence and the energy secretary, Rick Perry, laying out a wish list of environmental rollbacks, which he discussed in a meeting with Mr. Perry. The administration is on track to fulfill many of the items on Mr. Murray’s list.

Murray Energy’s donation to America First Action came about five months after Mr. Murray’s meeting with Mr. Perry. Asked whether there was any connection between the donation and the administration’s receptiveness to Mr. Murray, Gary M. Broadbent, a spokesman for Murray Energy, said that “President Trump and his administration have always supported the United States coal industry.”

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.





America First Action has spent heavily to try to court other major donors, as well, paying consultants with significant fund-raising experience, including Cara Mason, the former finance director of the Republican National Committee, and Marty Obst, a longtime aide and current policy adviser to Mr. Pence. Their respective firms were paid $60,000 each in the second half of last year by America First Action.

The super PAC hosted a Christmas party for donors at the Trump International Hotel, which has emerged as a go-to destination for donors and others seeking to rub elbows with Trump family members and insiders. The party was attended by Mr. Pence, as well as Trump family members and several members of Congress. In addition, America First Action spent more than $57,000 on gifts for donors at upscale jewelry stores, the White House Historical Association and 800-CEO-READ, a company that sells bulk orders of books about business, including many of Mr. Trump’s titles.

The super PAC also paid $55,000 to a firm owned by Mr. Lewandowski, $40,000 to one owned by Ms. Pierson and $137,000 to one owned by Mr. Parscale. He is in charge of digital outreach for America First Action and Mr. Trump’s campaign, and it is possible that his firm is using the money it received from the PAC to buy digital advertising. Mr. Clarke, who is a spokesman and senior adviser to America First, was paid $32,000 through his firm.
“Bygones are bygones,” Jules Trump said, looking back on a legal skirmish that involved nothing more than what’s in a name: his name, or, specifically, the Trump Organization (Donald J. Trump) and the Trump Group (Jules Trump and his brother, Eddie).

Like Donald J. Trump before he became a Republican presidential candidate or a reality-television personality, Jules and Eddie Trump are real estate developers, and rich.

In 2013, ABC News reported that a research firm, Wealth-X, ranked Eddie as No. 35 on a list of the 50 “most influential ultrahigh-net-worth individuals.” He was the only Trump on a list that started and ended with Microsoft’s co-founders: Bill Gates was No. 1, and Paul G. Allen, who owns the Seattle Seahawks and the Portland Trail Blazers, was No. 50. Donald Trump, who hopes to win the Iowa caucuses on Monday, was nowhere on the list, which also included the hedge fund manager William A. Ackman at No. 3, and the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett at No. 5.

Since the 1980s, Jules and Eddie Trump, who are not related to Donald, have built several luxury developments in Florida, including the Mansions at Acqualina, north of Miami, and on Williams Island. The Trumps’ apartment buildings have been home to Whitney Houston and Jimmy Johnson, the former head coach of the Miami Dolphins and the Dallas Cowboys.




Back when Donald Trump was calling news conferences to say he had refurbished the Central Park skating rink ahead of schedule and $750,000 under budget, the other Trumps had an office a short walk from the Trump Tower on the east side of Fifth Avenue at 56th Street. In the 1980s, their names, or the name “Trump Group,” appeared in  fewer than 15 times. Donald Trump’s name, or references to his Trump Organization, appeared more than 2,000 times.

In the 1990s, when he was taking up with Marla Maples, divorcing Ivana Trump and marrying and divorcing Ms. Maples, the Trump name appeared about the same number of times. The other Trumps’ name count dropped to two.

Outside the Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan.

Piotr Redlinski for



Outside the Trump Tower in Midtown Manhattan.
Piotr Redlinski for
One of the articles was about Trump v. Trump, a case that had begun in the 1980s, when Donald Trump sent his lawyer, Roy M. Cohn, to State Supreme Court in Manhattan to stop Jules and Eddie from using the name they were born with.

He claimed that their use of the Trump name was “designed to reap the benefits” of his. He also said it constituted unfair competition.

The brothers, in fact, had the name first, although they did not make that argument in the case. Jules Trump is 72. Eddie Trump is 69, the same age as Donald. But Eddie, born in April 1946, is two months older.



Despite Bitcoin’s Dive, a Former Soviet Republic Is Still Betting Big on It

Redefining Representation: The Women of the 116th Congress

The Treasure Behind the Wall




The court papers, preserved in microfiche, reside in a cabinet deep in the basement of the New York County Courthouse on Centre Street in Manhattan. To view the small negative-like sheets is to read about same-name cases from even earlier that were cited by the lawyers. One such case was Ed Sullivan v. Ed Sullivan Radio & TV, in which the host of a really big show appealed a lower-court ruling in favor of Edward J. Sullivan, an owner of a Buffalo repair shop.

If they were arguing the case now, the lawyers could mention more recent tussles over names. In 2010, a former Los Angeles drug kingpin known as Freeway Ricky Ross sued the Miami rapper who performed as Rick Ross. Last year, an appellate judge in California ruled in favor of the rap star, who was born William Leonard Roberts and was a correction officer before he became a performer. The judge, Roger Boren, said Mr. Roberts’s use of a stage name was protected by the First Amendment.

In the Trump case, Donald said in court papers that he had received inquiries from financial institutions about deals that the other Trumps were considering. He said that the calls pointed to confusion over which Trumps were which.

After an inquiry from a magazine publisher — David Q. Mahler, the vice president of a company that owned trade magazines — Donald Trump went to court.

“Welcome to the chain drugstore industry,” Mr. Mahler wrote in a letter, urging Donald Trump to follow “other leaders in the field” and “become an active subscriber” to one of his magazines, Drugstore News.

Eddie Trump

Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse — Getty s



Eddie Trump
Paul J. Richards/Agence France-Presse — Getty s
He was soliciting the wrong Trump. A unit of Jules and Eddie’s company had just acquired a drugstore chain called Pay ’n Save, and Mr. Mahler knew all about the company. “You couldn’t work with a better group of executives than those that are part of Pay ’n Save management,” he wrote.

Donald Trump eventually lost the case in State Supreme Court, but he had a two-pronged legal strategy. He had petitioned the federal Patent and Trademark Office to revoke the registration of the Trump Group’s trademark, which it did. The brothers could continue to use the name Trump Group, which they have, but they lost the legal benefits of having a trademark in 1988.

 for the New York Today Newsletter
Each morning, get the latest on New York businesses, arts, sports, dining, style and more.





So, as Donald Trump said in a telephone interview on Friday, “I got the name.”

“They’re also really nice guys,” he said of the other Trumps. “I’m friends with them. They’re quality guys. They do quality developments. I see them around, sometimes at the U.S. Open tennis. Really nice guys.”

Did he know that when he sued them? Did he know them then? “No,” he said. “I never sue people that I know if I like them. I didn’t know them, and then I got to know them after that.”

For his part, Jules Trump’s response to a reporter’s call about the lawsuits was, “I don’t want to get into that.”

“There’ve never been any issues with him since then,” he said. “But you know, we’ve engaged socially, and it was fine.”

Donald Trump got the name. Would he get Jules Trump’s vote?

“He’s a remarkable person, he’s an incredible person,” he said. He paused, and then added: “Whether I’d vote for him? I’m not getting into my political preferences.”

But reports filed with the Federal Election Commission show that he gave $25,000 to Conservative Solutions PAC, which is supporting Senator Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida.
WASHINGTON — President Trump added his former White House aide, Omarosa Manigault Newman, on Tuesday to the growing list of African-Americans he has publicly denigrated on Twitter, calling her “that dog” and a “crazed, crying lowlife” after her allegations against him of mental deterioration and racism.

Even for a president who consistently uses Twitter to assail his adversaries, the morning tweet about Ms. Manigault Newman was a remarkably crude use of the presidential bully pulpit to disparage a woman who once served at the highest levels in his White House.

In an interview on MSNBC, Ms. Manigault Newman responded that Mr. Trump treats women differently from men because he “believes they are beneath him” and that he talked in derogatory ways about minorities.

“He has absolutely no respect for women, for African-Americans,” she said.

In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has called Don Lemon, a CNN anchor, “the dumbest man on television.” He has questioned the intelligence of LeBron James, a star basketball player for the Los Angeles Lakers. And he has repeatedly said that Representative Maxine Waters, Democrat of California, has a “low I.Q.”




Mr. Trump has also deployed the “dog” insult for white people, including Arianna Huffington, a founder of HuffPost. During the 2016 presidential campaign, Mr. Trump tweeted that a onetime political rival and fellow Republican, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, “lies like a dog.”

Tuesday morning’s tweet was the latest in what has become an increasingly personal and malicious stream of Twitter posts from Mr. Trump, many of which are responses to his critics or aimed at questioning the integrity of the continuing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election and whether Mr. Trump or his aides were complicit in it. In recent days, the president has again used Twitter to lash out at his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and at an F.B.I. agent who helped oversee the Russia investigation and who was fired for sending texts critical of Mr. Trump.

Mr. Trump’s advisers and allies described the tweet about Ms. Manigault Newman, in particular, as a reaction to the accusations that she makes about the president in “Unhinged,” her tell-all book about her year in the West Wing. Scholars called it an ugly historical echo of the country’s racial divisions.

“It’s important to understand the legacy, the history of the attack on black intelligence as a way of justifying our dehumanization,” said Eddie S. Glaude Jr., the chairman of the African-American studies department at Princeton University. He said there was “something deeply racial” about the way Mr. Trump described Ms. Manigault Newman on Tuesday.



Robotic Milkers and an Automated Greenhouse: Inside a High-Tech Small Farm

How the Slice Joint Made Pizza the Perfect New York City Food

Gumbo, the Classic New Orleans Dish, Is Dead. Long Live Gumbo.




Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, disputed the idea that Mr. Trump’s tweet about Ms. Manigault Newman was driven by racial animus, and defended the president by pointing out his willingness to lash out at people of all races.

Video

1:05
Sanders Can’t ‘Guarantee’ That Trump Hasn’t Used N-Word
The White House Press Secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said that President Trump had denied using the racial slur and that he had never used it in her presence.Doug Mills/
“The fact is the president’s an equal opportunity person that calls things like he sees it,” Ms. Sanders told reporters. Under persistent questioning by reporters, Ms. Sanders said she could not guarantee that Mr. Trump had never used the N-word, but said that he had denied using it and that he had never used it in her presence.

She said White House employees would not continue to work with him if they thought he was a racist. “If at any point we felt that the president was who some of his critics claim him to be, we certainly wouldn’t be here,” Ms. Sanders said.

She told reporters they should focus instead on the fact that Mr. Trump created 700,000 jobs for African-Americans in less than two years, far more than the 195,000 jobs for blacks that she said were created during the eight years of the Obama administration.

In fact, Labor Department statistics showed that African-American employment grew by about three million during President Barack Obama’s two terms. Hours after her briefing, Ms. Sanders made a rare apology, tweeting that her numbers were off.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.



The 551 People, Places and Things Donald Trump Has Insulted on Twitter: A Complete List
A detailed list of the journalists, politicians and places President Trump has insulted since declaring his candidacy.

Jan. 28, 2016
“Jobs numbers for Pres Trump and Pres Obama were correct, but the time frame for Pres Obama wasn’t,” she wrote, citing information that she had interpreted incorrectly from the White House Council of Economic Advisers. “I’m sorry for the mistake, but no apologies for the 700,000 jobs for African Americans created under President Trump.”

During a decades-long career in real estate and reality television, Mr. Trump has at times been embraced by African-American celebrities who have vouched for his willingness to look past racial stereotypes. Michael Jackson and Don King, the boxing promoter, at times called Mr. Trump a friend.

Ms. Manigault Newman became a celebrity herself on “The Apprentice,” Mr. Trump’s reality television show. Later, as a top White House aide, she often defended the president against charges of racial bias or xenophobia.




In addition to the tweet praising his chief of staff, John F. Kelly, for “quickly firing that dog,” Mr. Trump also called Ms. Manigault Newman “Wacky and Deranged Omarosa” in another tweet this week. And in yet another, the president said she was hated by other staff members inside the White House and was known to be “vicious, but not smart.”

Linda-Susan Beard, the director of Africana Studies at Bryn Mawr College in Pennsylvania, said there is a long history in the United States of black women being compared to dogs.

“He’s drawing on a history of discourse that is so hate-filled and so historic that it all came together in these 34 words,” she said of Mr. Trump’s tweet about Ms. Manigault Newman, which was actually 35 words. “The statement is brilliant in its ability to do double duty: to offer an attack that is simultaneously racialized and gendered.”

On Tuesday, CBS News released a recording that Ms. Manigault Newman said was of two Trump campaign aides discussing how to react if a tape emerges with Mr. Trump using the N-word. Trump campaign officials had denied that such conversations took place.

A day earlier, NBC released a tape that Ms. Manigault Newman made of her speaking to Mr. Trump, which she said was recorded the day after she was fired. In the recording, the president said he knew nothing about the decision to fire her and told her, “I don’t love you leaving at all.”

In December, Mr. Kelly fired Ms. Manigault Newman in the Situation Room, the most secure conference room in the White House. Ms. Manigault Newman has released a recording of that conversation, as well.

Ms. Manigault Newman has said she has more audio recordings, and in an interview on Monday on MSNBC’s “Hardball,” said she would cooperate with Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel leading the Russia investigation, if asked. “Anything they want, I’ll share,” she said.




The president’s latest attack on Mr. Sessions was packaged with other tweets assailing the Russia investigation, which Mr. Trump regularly calls a “witch hunt.” He said the inquiry never would have started if “we had a real Attorney General,” an apparent reference to the decision by Mr. Sessions to recuse himself in the Russia inquiry.

Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, is currently on trial, accused of tax and bank fraud crimes. He is the first person to be prosecuted by the special counsel. Mr. Manafort’s lawyers rested on Tuesday without presenting a defense.

Blaming Mr. Sessions for not shutting down the investigation is not a new tack for Mr. Trump. Mr. Mueller is already reviewing some of Mr. Trump’s tweets about Mr. Sessions as part of a wide-ranging inquiry into whether the president has tried to obstruct justice in the investigation.

Mr. Trump also questioned why the Russia investigation would not end with the firing of the F.B.I. agent, Peter Strzok.

“Strzok started the illegal Rigged Witch Hunt — why isn’t this so-called ‘probe’ ended immediately?” Mr. Trump tweeted.
“Hey Rhona!” Donald J. Trump screamed from behind his desk on the 26th floor of Trump Tower one day last summer, before he won the presidency.

Moments later, Rhona Graff, Mr. Trump’s longtime executive assistant, popped in from her adjacent corner office.

“How long have you worked for me, Rhona?” Mr. Trump asked.

“A couple of dozen years — I was 10 years old at the time — I was a child prodigy,” Ms. Graff joked. “Mr. Trump discovered me.”

“Many of the people who are with me have been with me for a long time,” Mr. Trump explained.

In business, as a candidate and now as president, Mr. Trump has valued loyalty as the defining attribute in family, aides or Republicans in Congress. He does not always get it, as the defection of the Freedom Caucus last week on the health bill he was trying to pass made abundantly clear.




But Mr. Trump can always count on Ms. Graff’s allegiance, and that has made Ms. Graff, from her office in Trump Tower, a major figure in the operations of the White House for a simple reason: She is believed to have a direct line to the president.

With her deep Queens accent and unerring deference to her boss (she has always referred to him as Mr. Trump or, usually, as Mr. T), Ms. Graff, 64, is a familiar voice to New York’s business leaders, the nation’s political reporters and now old associates hoping to circumvent the normal channels of communication to reach Mr. Trump.

Ms. Graff is a senior vice president of the Trump Organization, and her unofficial role as a back channel to the president raises questions about whether Mr. Trump is skirting the Federal Records Act, which governs the preservation of schedules and correspondence from the president, something the White House denied in response to questions about her role from Politico.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.


Ms. Graff is believed to have a direct line to the president from her office on the 26th floor of Trump Tower in Manhattan.

Victor J. Blue for



Ms. Graff is believed to have a direct line to the president from her office on the 26th floor of Trump Tower in Manhattan.Victor J. Blue for
Reached on Sunday, Ms. Graff declined to comment. “I like staying behind the scenes,” she said in a conversation last year in which she rejected a reporter’s proposal to shadow her for a day because so much private campaign, business and personal information crossed her desk. “We’re so intertwined when he’s here,” she said.

Or, as she once put it to Real Estate Weekly, “Everybody knows in order to get through to him they have to go through me.”




Ms. Graff, a Queens College graduate with a master’s degree in psychology, left a sports marketing job after college to spend more time at home with her ailing mother. Eventually in search of another job, she heard about an opening in Mr. Trump’s office, and in 1987 called cold. They hit it off.

Since entering the Trump Organization’s secretarial pool, Ms. Graff has acted as Mr. Trump’s media liaison, scheduler, sometimes spokeswoman, fund-raising planner, “Apprentice” co-star and Miss Teen USA judge. And regardless of who is taking Mr. Trump’s calls in Washington, it is Ms. Graff who occupies a more central space in the Trump orbit.

In 1991, during Mr. Trump’s brush with going broke, it was Ms. Graff, “my very loyal secretary,” as he put it in “The Art of the Comeback,” who came into his office to tell him that his estranged wife, Ivana, was on the phone with the message, as he put it in the book, “I vant my money now.”

In 1993, Mayor David N. Dinkins presided at the wedding of Ms. Graff to Lucius Joseph Riccio, the city’s transportation commissioner, and later nicknamed Professor Pothole by The New Yorker for pioneering the field of pothole analytics at Columbia University.

For decades, Ms. Graff worked under the tutelage of Mr. Trump’s longtime personal assistant, Norma Infante Foerderer, who died in 2013 from a heart attack after a difficult eye surgery.

“She’d still be here if she didn’t have that problem,” Ms. Graff lamented in Mr. Trump’s office last year.

“A disaster,” Mr. Trump agreed.

But by 2005, the year Ms. Foerderer retired, Ms. Graff was already ascendant in an office that loomed large among the nation’s secretaries. (A poll of secretaries by a staple company showed that Mr. Trump trailed only President George W. Bush when it came to the country’s imagined toughest bosses.) In 2004, Ms. Graff became a recurring character on “The Apprentice,” and in 2008, she was briefly listed as the secretary for a luxury golf course in Scotland before a Trump confidant, George Sorial, replaced her.


In 2013, she attained boldfaced name status in Page Six of The New York Post as “Donald Trump’s right hand.”

Since Mr. Trump has technically stopped running the Trump Organization, Ms. Graff now forwards messages to Mr. Trump’s personal assistant in the White House, Madeleine Westerhout, whom Ms. Graff helped train. Sometimes she forwards messages to Katie Walsh, one of the deputy chiefs of staff; a White House spokeswoman maintained that messages are routinely sent to an official point of contact, instead of directly to the president.

Mr. Trump’s dedication to his secretary and hers to him is much like the relationship Fred C. Trump, his father, had with his secretary, Amy Luerssen, treating her like family. He once had workers carry her up 12 flights of stairs when her elevator stopped working, lent her nephew his wife’s pink Cadillac when his car was stolen and would see her off at the airport when she went on a trip.

When Ms. Luerssen’s niece, Kathy Quigley, tried to bring her aging aunt down to Florida, she said Donald Trump and his brother, Robert, insisted that Ms. Luerssen stay until she was senile. “It was a little bit of a battle because I was thinking, ‘Gee, I’d really like her to be down here with me,’” Ms. Quigley said. “But she was very happy.”

When her aunt died in 2006, a death notice appeared in  that read, “The Trump family mourns the passing of our beloved Amy, a trusted and loyal friend and employee for over 65 years.”

Mr. Trump compared his father’s dedication to Ms. Luerssen to his own loyalty to Ms. Graff. “My father was very loyal to people,” he said last summer. “I think I am too.”

Ms. Graff was clearly touched.

“Well thank you boss,” she said. “Well it works both ways obviously. I’d never leave him.”

MEXICO CITY — A bitter struggle between a Trump Organization hotel business and the owners of the Panama City hotel that carries the Trump name escalated on Monday when the Panamanian authorities announced that they had begun a formal investigation into the dispute.

The country’s Public Ministry said in a brief statement that it was looking into whether there had been any “punishable conduct” in the matter. The decision came in response to a complaint filed with the ministry on Friday accusing Trump executives of illegal “encroachment” on the property, the ministry’s statement said.

The owners association has been trying for months to dump President Trump’s company, which manages the property, the Trump International Hotel and Tower, blaming the Trump company and brand for declining revenues.

The Trump Organization’s involvement in the hotel began well before the property officially opened in 2011. But Orestes Fintiklis, a Miami-based investor whose firm bought a majority of the hotel’s units last year, has led the charge to drive it out. The owners association voted last year to end its relationship with the Trump company, and the sides entered into arbitration in October.

The fight intensified last Thursday, when Mr. Fintiklis, managing partner of Ithaca Capital Partners, appeared at the property to hand-deliver termination notices to four managers, The Associated Press reported.

The Trump Organization staff called the police and barred the owners’ group from entering a room containing the building’s computer servers and closed-circuit television system, The A.P. said. In response, the news agency reported, the owners’ group shut off power to the room, which also cut phone lines and internet connections throughout the building.

A legal complaint filed by Mr. Fintiklis accused the Trump team of improperly destroying documents during the standoff.

In a statement on Monday, Trump Hotels, a division of the Trump Organization, accused Mr. Fintiklis of using strong-arm tactics by deploying “a rogue private security team” to take over the hotel.

Mr. Fintiklis and another owner, the statement said, employed “thug-like, mob-style tactics, repeatedly attempting to force their way into Trump Hotels’ offices, infiltrate and disrupt its computer systems and threatening and intimidating any employee of the hotel that resisted.”

Trump Hotels also said that Mr. Fintiklis, by seeking to drive out the Trump Organization, had violated the terms of his purchase last year. Before closing on that deal, which involved 202 of the hotel’s 369 units, Mr. Fintiklis signed an agreement saying “he would not in any way attempt to interfere with Trump’s management of the hotel or take any other steps to terminate its management agreement,” the statement said.

The Trump company also seemed to taunt Mr. Fintiklis, suggesting that he had given up on arbitration because he was annoyed or running out of money. “Sadly, it now appears as though Mr. Fintiklis has either lost patience with the pace of the proceedings which he commenced or simply lacks the financial backing he once claimed he had,” the statement said.

Messages left for Mr. Fintiklis at Ithaca Capital Partners were not returned.

Since President Trump took office, his name has been removed from hotels in Toronto and in the SoHo neighborhood of New York, though both changes came through negotiated buyouts and the Trump Organization did not resist.

The Trump name was also wiped from a set of residential towers on the West Side of Manhattan after hundreds of tenants signed a petition demanding its removal. In explaining their decision, the owners said they sought “to assume a neutral building identity that appeals to all current and future residents.”
That lack of a disclosure requirement has given rise to a crush of people registering the names of well-known brands, a practice known as “trademark squatting.” Trademark lawyers in the country often advise celebrities and overseas companies to file for trademarks across many sectors in a strategy known as “defensive filing” because litigation is an expensive and time-consuming process.

Opportunists have flocked to the Trump brand. His name is emblazoned on toilets, cosmetics and leather goods in China — trademarks registered by people other than the president.

Mr. Trump waged a decade-long legal battle for the right to protect his name brand for construction projects, finally winning in February. That trademark approval was disclosed days after Mr. Trump spoke with the Chinese president and dropped his challenge to China’s policy on Taiwan.

Whether the Trump Organization will profit from the trademarks remains to be seen. The licensing of Mr. Trump’s name, together with real estate development, are principal sources of the company’s income.

“As a legal matter, the trademark itself is a thing of value, as proven by how hard the president has fought for some of these trademarks over the years, in China and elsewhere,” said Norman Eisen, who was an ethics lawyer for former President Barack Obama. Mr. Eisen is part of a group that sued Mr. Trump, alleging that his business interests violate the emoluments clause in the Constitution that bars presidents from taking gifts or payments from foreign governments.

“The Constitution simply does not allow him to collect foreign tributes of this kind while he sits in the Oval Office,” he added.

The Trump Organization has said it will not do any further international deals. The business is now being run by the president’s two adult sons.

Senators have expressed concern about Mr. Trump’s trademarks in China, saying Beijing could use them to sway policy decisions. In March, Senator Ben Cardin, Democrat of Maryland and ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said “officials in Beijing have come to appreciate the potential return on investments for China in having a positive, personal business relationship with the president of the United States, who has not taken appropriate and transparent steps to completely sever his relationship from the corporation that bears his name.”

China has said it has acted in accordance with the law regarding Mr. Trump’s trademarks.
Natalia V. Veselnitskaya, the Russian lawyer who in 2016 met with Trump campaign officials in Trump Tower, was charged on Tuesday in a separate case that showed her close ties to the Kremlin.

Ms. Veselnitskaya, a pivotal figure in the investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election, was charged by federal prosecutors in Manhattan with seeking to thwart an earlier investigation into money laundering that involved an influential Russian businessman and his investment firm.

The money-laundering case was not directly related to the Trump Tower meeting. But a federal indictment returned in Manhattan seemed to confirm that Ms. Veselnitskaya had deep ties to senior Russian government officials and rekindled questions about whether the Kremlin tried to use her as an intermediary to Donald J. Trump’s campaign.

The charge stems from a 2013 civil investigation by the Manhattan prosecutors into the role that some of Ms. Veselnitskaya’s clients — Prevezon Holdings and its owner, Denis P. Katsyv — played in a scheme to launder ill-gotten money through New York real estate purchases.

The Justice Department asked the Russian government to assist its investigation, but the Russians refused, responding with a document that purported to exonerate Russian officials and Prevezon, according to the indictment.

The indictment said Ms. Veselnitskaya secretly cooperated with a senior Russian prosecutor in drafting the document, which was later filed in federal court in Manhattan.

She is charged with one count of obstruction of justice.

Ms. Veselnitskaya, 43, is believed to be in Russia, according to the United States attorney’s office for the Southern District of New York, which moved to unseal the indictment on Tuesday. The office gave no indication that it expected her to be sent to Manhattan to face charges.

Ms. Veselnitskaya did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday. CNN quoted her as saying she had just learned of the indictment and would defend her “professional honor.”

The new indictment again raised questions about whom Ms. Veselnitskaya was representing when she met with Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, Paul Manafort and others at Trump Tower in Manhattan.



Can a Church Founded in 1677 Survive the 21st Century?

The Itsy-Bitsy, Teenie-Weenie, Very Litigious Bikini

The Lives They Lived 2018
That meeting is one focus of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into whether the Trump campaign coordinated with Russia’s covert operation to sway the presidential race. It was organized after an intermediary promised that Ms. Veselnitskaya would deliver documents that would incriminate Hillary Clinton.

Last April, Ms. Veselnitskaya acknowledged in an interview with NBC News that she was not merely a private lawyer, but a source of information for the Russian prosecutor general, Yuri Y. Chaika. Now, prosecutors in Manhattan say she collaborated clandestinely with that office to write an official letter that benefited Prevezon.

For years, Ms. Veselnitskaya has been regarded as a trusted insider and go-to lawyer for the Moscow regional government.

Read the Indictment: United States vs. Natalia V. Veselnitskaya
Ms. Veselnitskaya had secretly cooperated with a Russian prosecutor in drafting the Russian response in a United States money-laundering case, the document says.

 19 pages, 0.48 MB
[Learn why Natalia Veselnitskaya is seen as a fearsome Moscow insider.]

In the fraud case, filed in 2013, the Manhattan prosecutors accused Prevezon and other defendants of using real estate purchases in New York to launder a small portion of the proceeds of a $230 million Russian tax scheme. The lawsuit was settled last May on the eve of trial for about $6 million, with Prevezon admitting no fault.

The Russian fraud had been uncovered by Sergei L. Magnitsky, the Russian lawyer who was imprisoned after exposing the scheme and who died in a Moscow jail.

Ms. Veselnitskaya has maintained that she was acting in a private capacity when she visited Trump Tower in June 2016, shortly after Mr. Trump clinched the Republican nomination.

Her claim has been undercut by revelations that the meeting was organized because campaign officials had been told she could offer damaging information about Ms. Clinton from the Russian government.

Each morning, get the latest on New York businesses, arts, sports, dining, style and more.


In addition, her memo on talking points for the meeting closely matched a memo Mr. Chaika’s office had prepared for an American member of Congress, incorporating some passages verbatim.

The indictment unsealed on Tuesday could further undermine Ms. Veselnitskaya’s story, alleging that a year before the Trump Tower get-together she worked hand in glove with Russian officials to derail the money-laundering case.

In that case, the Manhattan prosecutors alleged that corrupt Russian officials stole the corporate identities of companies owned by Hermitage Capital Management, a foreign investment firm operating in Russia, and used them to fraudulently claim $230 million in tax refunds.

As part of the investigation, the Justice Department asked the Russian government in 2014 for assistance in obtaining bank records and other materials pertaining to the fraud scheme, the indictment said.

In response, the Russians provided the supposed findings of an investigation that “purported to exonerate all Russian government personnel” and instead cast blame on the London-based chief executive of Hermitage, William F. Browder; his lawyer, Mr. Magnitsky; and others, the indictment said.

In 2015, lawyers representing Prevezon, which had been accused of laundering some of the fraudulent proceeds, filed court papers, including the declaration from Ms. Veselnitskaya, to argue that the Russian government’s findings were exculpatory evidence. The papers did not disclose her role, the indictment charged.

The indictment said Ms. Veselnitskaya exchanged emails with a senior Russian prosecutor, attaching drafts with edits and comments. Many of her suggestions “were adopted, either essentially verbatim, in rephrased form or with light edits,” it said.

The Russian prosecutor’s office did not respond to a request for comment.

Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said on Tuesday that “fabricating evidence” in an attempt “to affect the outcome of pending litigation not only undermines the integrity of the judicial process, but it threatens the ability of our courts and our government to ensure that justice is done.”

Mr. Browder has led a human-rights campaign against the Kremlin that has resulted in sanctions being imposed against Russian officials worldwide. He said on Tuesday that Ms. Veselnitskaya came to the United States to “disrupt the political process by lying about me and lying about Sergei Magnitsky, my murdered lawyer. And she got caught lying, and she’s being prosecuted for those lies.”

WASHINGTON — The special counsel is investigating a payment made to President Trump’s foundation by a Ukrainian steel magnate for a talk during the campaign, according to three people briefed on the matter, as part of a broader examination of streams of foreign money to Mr. Trump and his associates in the years leading up to the election.

Investigators subpoenaed the Trump Organization this year for an array of records about business with foreign nationals. In response, the company handed over documents about a $150,000 donation that the Ukrainian billionaire, Victor Pinchuk, made in September 2015 to the Donald J. Trump Foundation in exchange for a 20-minute appearance by Mr. Trump that month through a video link to a conference in Kiev.

Michael D. Cohen, the president’s personal lawyer whose office and hotel room were raided on Monday in an apparently unrelated case, solicited the donation. The contribution from Mr. Pinchuk, who has sought closer ties for Ukraine to the West, was the largest the foundation received in 2015 from anyone besides Mr. Trump himself.

The subpoena is among signs in recent months that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is interested in interactions that Mr. Trump or his associates had with countries beyond Russia, though it is not clear what other payments he is scrutinizing.

Mr. Mueller also ordered the Trump Organization to turn over documents, emails and other communications about several Russians, including some whose names have not been publicly tied to Mr. Trump, according to the three people, who would not be named discussing the ongoing investigation. The identities of the Russians were unclear.

The payment from Mr. Pinchuk “is curious because it comes during a campaign and is from a foreigner and looks like an effort to buy influence,” said Marcus S. Owens, a former head of the Internal Revenue Service division that oversees tax-exempt organizations. He called the donation “an unusual amount of money for such a short speech.”

Mr. Cohen did not respond to a request for comment. Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for the president, did not return several messages seeking comment, nor did a lawyer for the Trump Organization. When  revealed the existence of the subpoena in March, Mr. Trump’s associates played it down as a routine court order to ensure the Trump Organization had handed over all the documents Mr. Mueller had demanded.

Mr. Trump assailed the special counsel investigation on Monday as a “witch hunt,” reaching for a favored insult in response to the seizure of Mr. Cohen’s records. He complained that he had cooperated with the inquiry and viewed the warrant for the raid, obtained by federal prosecutors in Manhattan after a referral from Mr. Mueller, as an extreme step.

“It’s a disgraceful situation,” he told reporters at the White House. “It’s a total witch hunt. I’ve been saying it for a long time. I’ve wanted to keep it down. I’ve given over a million pages in documents to the special counsel.”



‘Exhibit A’: How McKinsey Got Entangled in a Bribery Case

How Tarell Alvin McCraney Moved From ‘Moonlight’ to Broadway — and Beyond

52 Places to Go in 2019
Mr. Mueller has also examined a deal Mr. Cohen was putting together with Mr. Trump to build a Trump Tower in Moscow. Mr. Trump said last summer that Mr. Mueller should not look at his or his family’s finances beyond issues related directly to Russia.

But the special counsel’s investigators have questioned witnesses about whether money from the Persian Gulf had been used to finance Mr. Trump’s political efforts and asked for information on Mr. Pinchuk.

The inquiry into the Trump Organization’s payments from foreign nationals underscores how diffuse Mr. Trump’s sources of income have been over many years. And the destination of Mr. Pinchuk’s donation — the Trump Foundation instead of the president’s personal coffers — raised fresh questions about how the president handled the entity he set up to deal with charitable giving.

Mr. Trump’s foundation attracted scrutiny during the 2016 campaign over revelations about his lack of financial support for it and his use of it to pay legal settlements rather than fulfill pledges he made to give to charity. In 2007, Mr. Trump used $20,000 from the foundation to buy a six-foot-tall portrait of himself.

Two weeks after he was elected president, the foundation acknowledged in a tax form that it might have broken federal rules designed to prohibit self-dealing, when charities use their money to benefit principals in their organization.

In the same filing, the foundation disclosed the donation from Mr. Pinchuk for Mr. Trump’s video appearance.

Mr. Pinchuk is the son-in-law of a former president of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, who from 1994 to 2005 led a government criticized for corruption, nepotism and the murder of dissident journalists. Mr. Pinchuk, who has been accused by steel makers in the United States of illegally dumping steel on the American market at artificially low prices, drew more scrutiny during the campaign for his ties to Hillary Clinton and her family foundation. He has donated more than $13 million to that organization since 2006.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.


Mr. Trump’s appearance was broadcast at the Yalta European Strategy conference, which promotes pro-European Union policies for Ukraine. Through his own foundation, Mr. Pinchuk sponsors the affair, which typically attracts well-known former Western leaders like former Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and former President Bill Clinton. It was moved to Kiev after Russia’s annexation of Crimea in 2014.


Trump's video appearance at a conference in Ukraine in 2015.
In a statement, the Victor Pinchuk Foundation said it reached out to Mr. Trump and other world leaders to help “promote strengthened and enduring ties between Ukraine and the West.”

Mr. Trump appeared via video link at the Yalta European Strategy conference in Kiev in September 2015.



Mr. Trump appeared via video link at the Yalta European Strategy conference in Kiev in September 2015.Volodymyr Petrov/Kyiv Post
The foundation said the donation was “a specific request of Mr. Trump Foundation in September of 2015 when there were multiple candidates for the Republican nomination for president and it was by no means assured that Mr. Trump would be the Republican nominee in 2016.”

At the time, Mr. Trump occupied an unusual position in the presidential race. Though he was the Republican front-runner, the primary field was crowded and he was being vetted or seriously considered by few, if any, in the news media or the Republican establishment.

The event, his first foray into global politics during the campaign, was set up by Doug Schoen, a veteran political consultant and pollster who works with Mr. Pinchuk, according to a person familiar with how the speech was arranged. Mr. Schoen, a frequent Fox News guest, has known Mr. Trump for years and contacted him personally to set it up at the end of August 2015, according to the person.

Mr. Trump did not raise the prospect of any payment. But the next day, Mr. Cohen called Mr. Schoen to solicit the $150,000 as an honorarium, the person briefed on the matter said. Mr. Schoen, who had gotten to know Mr. Cohen by running into him in the green room at Fox News, dealt with him and not Mr. Trump directly, according to another person briefed on the exchange.

The Kiev talk received little attention, with the scant coverage focused on the awkward nature of Mr. Trump’s delivery. He repeatedly stopped speaking, apparently believing he had to pause to give translators time to relay what he was saying.

“You need not wait for any translation,” Mr. Schoen finally told him.

Mr. Trump continued to pause and said he was having trouble hearing. “The sound system is terrible because there is a huge delay and feedback,” he said.

Mr. Trump used the appearance to criticize President Barack Obama amid deteriorating relations between the United States and Russia over its incursions into Ukraine, which had begun a year earlier. “Our president is not strong and he is not doing what he should be doing for the Ukraine,” Mr. Trump said, using the article before Ukraine, which is seen as insulting by some Ukrainians.

“Putin does not respect our president whatsoever,” he said of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

Ukraine, once a part of the Soviet Union, has been at the center of another part of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry. He is investigating the consulting work done in Kiev by Mr. Trump’s former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, for the country’s pro-Russian former president, Viktor F. Yanukovych. Mr. Manafort has pleaded not guilty to charges of tax fraud and other financial crimes.

He resigned from Mr. Trump’s campaign in August 2016 after handwritten ledgers were made public showing that he received $12.7 million in undisclosed cash payments from Mr. Yanukovych’s pro-Russian political party from 2007 to 2012.
In light of the suspicions hanging over Donald Trump and Pam Bondi, the Florida attorney general, this opening quote from her Republican National Convention speech is particularly rich. “Nov. 8 is a day of reckoning for all those who have abused their power,” she said. “Winning this election means reclaiming something to which I’ve dedicated my entire career: the rule of law.”

While it hasn’t been proved that Mr. Trump or Ms. Bondi violated bribery law, there’s little doubt that they abused the public trust in 2013, when Ms. Bondi received a $25,000 campaign contribution from Mr. Trump four days after her office announced that Florida was “reviewing the allegations” in a lawsuit filed in New York against his Trump University. Attorneys general in New York and California are pursuing separate class-action suits alleging that Trump University bilked consumers of tens of thousands of dollars they each paid for a worthless real-estate investment course. In the end, Ms. Bondi’s office did not take any action against Trump University.

Mr. Trump’s contribution from his family foundation to Ms. Bondi violated federal tax law barring tax-exempt charities from engaging in political activity. The Washington Post reported last week that Mr. Trump paid a $2,500 penalty to the Internal Revenue Service for the violation.

News of the fine came as Mr. Trump has spent days accusing Hillary Clinton and the Clinton Foundation of similar pay-to-play schemes. Confronted on Monday, Mr. Trump said oddly that he hadn’t spoken to Ms. Bondi. The Associated Press reported in June that an adviser to Ms. Bondi confirmed that Ms. Bondi had spoken to Mr. Trump and asked for the contribution.

Mr. Trump has made a point of saying that he’s in the habit of buying politicians. He said in July 2015, “When you give, they do whatever the hell you want them to do.” And during a Republican debate the next month, he said: “I was a businessman. I give to everybody. When they call, I give. And you know what? When I need something from them, two years later, three years later, I call them, and they are there for me.” In Iowa in January, he said: “When I call, they kiss my ass. O.K.?”

Ms. Bondi’s office did not respond when asked for an explanation of why she would accept a $25,000 donation from Mr. Trump just days after her office announced that it was reviewing New York’s allegations against him.

The Florida allegations are not the first of their kind. In 2013 and 2014, Mr. Trump gave a total of $35,000 to the campaign of Greg Abbott, Texas’ attorney general, now the state’s governor. In 2010, Mr. Abbott’s office had dropped its investigation of Trump University. A 2014 series in The Times recounted in detail how many attorneys general, including Ms. Bondi, accepted travel, luxury accommodations and other perks from corporations targeted by their offices. This behavior is practically built into a campaign finance system in which nearly limitless cash engulfs both parties.

If Ms. Bondi promised to back off the Trump University suit in exchange for campaign money during that 2013 phone conversation, it could be a crime. As for Mr. Trump, the $2,500 I.R.S. fine is a tiny penalty, unless voters impose consequences of their own.
There was an Ivana Trump sighting in Manhattan the other day, and then, almost faster than you can say “surely she flew private,” she was off to Saint-Tropez, a sun-washed playground in the French Riviera, for air-kissing among V.I.P.s with security entourages close by and yachts in the distance.

She spends time in Europe, out of the spotlight. “By choice,” said the socialite Vivian Serota, one of her friends in New York.

But she can still draw the photographers when she wants to be seen. Shutters flapped like metallic wings recently at a diet-regimen promotion in Manhattan. When it came to talk of her ex-husband and how she has been affected by his becoming president, though, she said almost nothing. She deflected a question about how often she talks to him by saying, “I’m really not going to go into politics.”

“But we speak,” she added quickly.

There was a time, more than a generation ago, when Donald and Ivana Trump were an “it” couple in New York. They were mentioned in the gossip columns. They danced the hours away in places like Studio 54 and dined in places like the 21 Club or were photographed at birthday parties for celebrities like Mike Wallace, the “60 Minutes” correspondent. They went to Broadway openings, navigating the red carpets as flashbulbs lit the night.

But now, during the first year and a half of her ex-husband’s presidency, Ms. Trump has been on the periphery of the Trump universe that had once put the couple in a social whirl of the brightest lights and the biggest names. Ms. Trump attended his inauguration, but was not in the front row. (She has said she was shepherding her mother, who was in a wheelchair at the ceremony, and they watched from “off the platform.”) And she edged a little more into the limelight last year with the publication of a memoir, “Raising Trump.”

So how close are two of the world’s most famous exes? The high-end furrier Dennis Basso, another longtime friend of Ms. Trump, said he believed that she’s closer to him than many divorcées are to their exes.

“It’s a long time that they’re divorced,” he said, noting that the split became official 26 years ago. “There’s a lot of water under that bridge. I think — I’m not an expert — but I think when people get divorced and things are fresh and new, it’s always more difficult. I think when time passes, things seem to get better with age.”

Another friend, the former cable-television host and weight-loss guru Nikki Haskell, said Ms. Trump “has nothing but great things to say about Donald.” Ms. Haskell — who said she texts her every day and talks with her on the phone almost as often — also said that Ms. Trump and the president are “still kindred spirits.”

How Ms. Trump feels about the president’s turbulent tenure could not be discerned. She did not return several calls to her Upper East Side townhouse, which she bought after her divorce from Mr. Trump in 1992. “My home reflects my style perfectly,” she wrote in “Raising Trump,” mentioning the marble staircase, the “white piano room” on the second floor and the “leopard sitting room” and gold-embossed fireplace on the third.



What Is Glitter?

Mitch McConnell Got Everything He Wanted. But at What Cost?

A Struggling Desert Town Bets Its Future on Pot
“Everyone wanted her to write a book,” Ms. Serota said. “She was very quiet and happy and happy to be out of the spotlight.” But publishers made overtures, Ms. Serota said. “They said, ‘Ivana, write a book.’”

She did, and then she promoted it. And then, on “Good Morning America,” she said she was “basically first Trump wife,” adding, “I’m first lady, O.K.” That drew a rebuke from a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump’s third and current wife, Melania. But to some, it simply sounded like Ms. Trump getting crossed up with the English language. At times when Ms. Trump is talking, definite articles disappear or appear where they are not needed, as they did when she gave Mr. Trump a nickname that New York never forgot, “the Donald.”

Ms. Trump with two of her three children: Donald Trump Jr., left, and Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner.

Ms. Trump with two of her three children: Donald Trump Jr., left, and Ivanka Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner.Grant Lamos IV/Getty s
“However it came out, that was fine, she sold more books,” Ms. Serota said of the comment about the “first Trump lady.” “She did not mean to insult Melania. She certainly did not.”

Ms. Serota said the book might have whetted Ms. Trump’s appetite for exposure, and that might have figured in her decision to promote the diet, devised by an entrepreneur who once spent $200,000 to recreate the Brooklyn disco where “Saturday Night Fever” was filmed.

“I think she wanted to be in public again after the book,” Ms. Serota said, “and she’s always watching people and how they eat.”

“Raising Trump” made clear that Ms. Trump is proud of her three children — Donald Jr., Eric and Ivanka. Which one is she closest to?

“Could be between Ivanka and Eric,” Ms. Serota said. “Maybe Eric now, because Eric is here and Ivanka is in Washington.”

Each morning, get the latest on New York businesses, arts, sports, dining, style and more.


As far as geography goes, Ms. Trump made clear at the diet event that she had a fondness for Europe. The low-calorie, low-carbohydrate plan is the creation of an Italian, and she said she liked “Italian men, Italian food, Italian mountains, Italian sea, everything Italian.”

Last month she was on the Italian version of “Dancing with the Stars” with her fourth ex-husband, Rossano Rubicondi, who was born in Rome. (They married in 2008 and divorced the following year.)

“I had to dance two-minute waltz,” she told the crowd at the diet event. Never mind that just last year, after Marla Maples, the second Mrs. Trump, appeared on “Dancing with the Stars,” Ivana Trump wrote, “What a disgrace that was! No class!” She said she had said no to repeated offers to be a contestant.

But, about what happened after she said yes in Italy. “Now, I had a two-hour rehearsal and then I went live in front of 10 million Italians. And you had to remember the steps, and long dress and long hair and makeup and high heels.” She called it “one of the hardest things I’d ever done.”

She said this as she glided through the Oak Room of the Plaza Hotel, a New York icon that, as she noted, she used to preside over. (Donald J. Trump bought it in 1988 and was forced to sell it, along with other holdings, in 1995.) “I used to be Eloise of the Plaza,” she said, “running through the corridors, through the kitchens, through the ballrooms, through the meeting rooms.”

But the Oak Room had the slightly dusty atmosphere of a relic. It is open these days only for private events — weddings or special gatherings. You cannot just walk in and belly up to the famous bar or follow the maître d’hôtel to a banquette. After a condominium conversion a dozen years ago, what was left of the Plaza’s hotel operation was centered on the other side of the building. That left the Oak Room less public.

Ms. Trump, too, seems less public. One of her telephone numbers is still answered “Ivana Incorporated,” but she is not the fixture on cable television she was in the 1990s and early 2000s when People magazine said the House of Ivana clothing did $50 million in sales a year. She herself wrote that live television was hard but lucrative work. She wrote that she had sold 5,000 bottles of perfume in an evening. “My sales record was $675,000 in one hour,” she wrote. “If I didn’t sell $200,000 an hour, it was a disappointment.”

Before they divorced in 1992, the Trumps made regular appearances in the gossip columns. Even after divorce and with Mr. Trump occupying the White House, the two remain in touch, according to friends.
Before they divorced in 1992, the Trumps made regular appearances in the gossip columns. Even after divorce and with Mr. Trump occupying the White House, the two remain in touch, according to friends.Swerzey/Agence France-Presse — Getty s
Irena McLean, whose late husband was a shipping-container magnate, said she knew Ms. Trump from Saint-Tropez and remembered being surprised when she heard that Ms. Trump was starting a clothing line.

“I was overwhelmed — this woman is selling clothes?” she said. “But she is good at anything she put her mind to.”

Ms. Serota said Ms. Trump’s popularity from television has endured, especially among women. “She had a very exciting life, and then she had her heart broken,” she said. “Women relate to that. It’s nothing to do with Donald.” Women, she said, “come up to her and say, ‘Ivana, Ivana, you have such wonderful children, how do you do it?’”

Ms. Serota talked about going to a recent matinee of “Summer: The Donna Summer Musical” with Ms. Trump. Someone recognized her and said, “It’s you, it’s really you,’” Ms. Serota recalled.

“Ivana was so gracious,” she added. “Then somebody else came up. They started going, ‘Ivana, we love you, you’re great, your children are great.’ Not that I’m a bodyguard, but I said, ‘O.K., ladies, pull back, you can take her picture, then we’re going to go.”

Dinner with Ms. Trump can also be interrupted by people who have recognized her and want to say something, Ms. Serota said. But there is a difference.

“The women want to talk to her,” she said. “The men want to get a message to Donald. If he was not president, women would still come up to her.”

And one woman, Ms. Serota said, asked the difficult question — after the woman’s husband had approached Ms. Trump’s table a couple of times, seeking a conduit to the president.

His wife “leans in and says, ‘How do you feel, she’s in the White House?’” Ms. Serota recalled, adding that Ms. Trump smiled and replied, “Oh, no, she’s lovely, I wish her good luck.”

Does Ms. Trump believe that? “Of course she does,” Ms. Serota said. (Ms. Trump wrote in “Raising Trump” that she had “no problems” with Melania Trump — “Why should I?” Ms. Trump wrote. “She didn’t break up my marriage.” (One of the many headline-making moments from the very public unraveling of the Trumps’ marriage came when Marla Maples confronted Ms. Trump on the slopes in Aspen, Colo., in December 1989. “I’m Marla, and I love your husband,” Ms. Maples said to Ms. Trump, according to “Raising Trump.” “Do you?” )

Ms. Trump was a model when she met Mr. Trump in the late 1970s and a skier before that — she was an alternate on the 1972 Olympic ski team from what was then Czechoslovakia. At the diet event she said that she had had a gym installed in her townhouse.

“And guess what, I take elevator to gym,” she said, leaving out a “the.”

“But I have every machine there,” she said. “I usually do about 40, 45 minutes. I watch the morning news.”

She did not say whether her television was tuned to “Fox & Friends,” the three-hour morning program on Fox News that counts her ex-husband as its No. 1 fan.

When Donald J. Trump unveiled his new online travel booking venture, GoTrump.com, he said in a promotional video in 2006 that customers would “love everything I put on this site.” “There’s nobody better,” he added. “There’s nobody even close!”

A few months later, ground was broken for Trump Tower Tampa, a project he said would “redefine both Tampa’s skyline and the market’s expectations of luxurious condominium living.”

And when he signed a long-term deal with the fledgling U.S. Pro Golf Tour that summer to become a partner on a new championship series, he proclaimed that “there is no doubt the talent level is among the highest in the world.”

The travel venture never took off. The tower in Tampa, Fla., was not built. And the golf championships? Mr. Trump withdrew as the tour fell apart.

Moving past a disastrous period that led to a loss on paper of more than $900 million — possibly freeing him from federal income taxes for years — Mr. Trump became a one-man factory of big ideas, churning out a continual stream of projects and promises. Together, they fed the  of Mr. Trump as an American Midas, the foundation of his argument for why he would make a great president.

To see whether the results of these ventures came close to their high-energy billing,  analyzed scores of Trump business announcements starting a decade ago, including those posted on the Trump Organization’s website and those that have been deleted but live on in web archives. The Times also combed through news reports, his personal financial disclosures and court records; interviewed partners; and interviewed Mr. Trump himself.

Of the roughly 60 endeavors started or promoted by Mr. Trump during the period analyzed, The Times found few that went off without a hitch. One-third of them never got off the ground or soon petered out. Another third delivered a measure of what was promised — buildings were built, courses taught, a product introduced — but they also encountered substantial problems, like lawsuits, government investigations, partnership woes or market downturns.

The remaining third, while sometimes encountering strife, generally met expectations — notably the television show “The Apprentice” and the purchases of numerous golf courses, including properties near Philadelphia and in the Hudson Valley.

In interviews, Mr. Trump disputed some of the characterizations, saying that, among other things, some projects that might appear to be failures were successes, for him at least, because he often made his money upfront, through fees for the use of the Trump name. The bottom line of all the hits and misses, however, is impossible to determine because Mr. Trump, the Republican presidential nominee, has not released any tax returns.

Regardless of how much money a deal made — or did not make — one constant through the years is that these ventures were almost always introduced with a certain Trumpian flair: Each would set a “new standard” or be the “very, very best.”

Art of the News Release
Jim Dowd, who advised Mr. Trump on public relations and marketing from 2004 to 2010, recalled that Mr. Trump typically took a personal interest in each news release, marking up drafts with a red pen he kept on his desk.

“We would draft a quote for him, but he would always rewrite it, making it much larger than life,” Mr. Dowd said in an interview earlier this year. (Mr. Dowd died last month.)

There were some common terms: “Huge, billions — those words would have to be in there,” Mr. Dowd said. “Definitely ‘unprecedented.’ Definitely ‘the best of the best.’”

For free publicity, Mr. Trump would also schedule news conferences to announce his deals, and he seemed to feast on the attention.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.



“He was so caught up in the glamour of the press conference and getting the lobby of Trump Tower filled with media,” Mr. Dowd said. “He would plop down the elevator, do his thing for 35 minutes, and he was pretty much in every media outlet the next day.”

Eventually, Mr. Dowd said, the throngs of journalists who attended Mr. Trump’s news conferences waned, as they asked Mr. Dowd, “Really, another one?”

Mr. Dowd thought Mr. Trump was putting himself out too often. “He was doing these all over the world,” he said. “He was flying to Panama to announce that project. He was flying to Puerto Rico; the golf course in Scotland.”

Mr. Trump said he recalled those visits fondly, though he demurred when asked if he had been overexposed in his business ventures. “It’s a big world,” he said. “You can do a lot of things.”

Strategy: Sell the Name
But the reality was that the success of “The Apprentice,” which averaged 21 million viewers weekly when it made its debut in 2004, had given Mr. Trump access to what seemed like an endless flow of business opportunities.

There were unrealized real estate developments in Atlanta; on the Baja California peninsula in Mexico; and in Cap Cana in the Dominican Republic, an “elite destination that will be known worldwide in the years to come.” The hotel and golf club in Cap Cana bearing the Trump name, announced almost a decade ago, have not been built, and Mr. Trump ended up suing his partners over licensing fees.

There were entertainment endeavors: a concept for a Trump animation series akin to “The Simpsons”; a speaking tour in Australia that was canceled, though Mr. Trump did eventually go there for a round of lucrative speeches; and “Trump Tycoon,” a smartphone app that sold for “$2.99 but the advice is priceless,” as he wrote at the time on Twitter. He said recently that he did not recall the app, which is no longer available.


There were scores of Trump-branded products, with mixed success: vodka; magazines; suits; ties; chairs; bath towels; crystal; and perhaps the most famous one, Trump Steaks, sold by Sharper  and “by far the best tasting, most flavorful beef that you’ll ever eat.” Some live on, but in general, they typically failed to match the initial hype before quietly disappearing.

And there was Trump University, a series of real estate seminars that, like many of Mr. Trump’s endeavors, wound up in the courts.

Mr. Trump’s name seemed to be just about everywhere.

But a close look reveals patterns, particularly before and after the financial crisis of 2008. (The Times did not analyze any projects begun after 2012, because a number of them were too new to evaluate.)

Until the crisis, Mr. Trump focused mainly on real estate developments, often mixed hotel-condominium projects. The market downturn thwarted some of those plans, and he began shifting more aggressively to smaller licensing agreements with makers of home products and goods.

The Trump Organization accelerated its focus on golf, buying clubs near Philadelphia; in Westchester County, N.Y.; in Doral, Fla.; and elsewhere. Despite occasional bumps, as when neighbors in Doral complained about noise and the course’s new view-blocking trees, the purchases have generally gone according to plan.


Win-Win Proposition
Where others might see disappointment, Mr. Trump is unfailingly upbeat when reflecting on his business ventures.

In the interviews, he maintained that his deals, for the most part, “are all tremendously successful.” And a number of them were, at least for him, because they were licensing arrangements that paid him millions of dollars in fees upfront regardless of how well the engagement turned out. Other times, he said, he showed his business acumen by canceling or delaying deals to avoid hitting a difficult market.

“All of my jobs work in some form or another,” Mr. Trump said, noting several times that he had more than 100 deals in progress or in negotiation. “A lot of people don’t understand.”

He harbored no regrets about how he had trumpeted his past engagements, explaining how his promotions were no different from what one might find in newspaper ads for a new car or home. “People use language that’s very much up there,” he said.


He acknowledged that he sometimes announced deals before they were fully baked. It was part of the plan, he said, to gauge the public’s response, like a trial balloon, to see whether a deal was worth doing.

“It is an awfully good way of testing things, I’ll be honest with you,” he said. “There’s no investment, as opposed to doing the deal and letting it be a failure.”

As president, Mr. Trump said, he might use the same approach to policy making. “I guess you could say there will be a time where I may want to test something by talking about it publicly and seeing what the response is,” he said.

But he said that some of his campaign pledges were positively bankable.

“For instance,” he said, “we are going to build a wall. I’m going to build the wall.”

WASHINGTON — President Trump excommunicated his onetime chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, from his circle on Wednesday, ending for now a partnership of convenience that transformed American politics while raising questions about the future of the nationalist-populist movement they cultivated together.

The rupture came after Mr. Bannon was quoted in a new book disparaging the president’s children, asserting that Donald Trump Jr. had been “treasonous” in meeting with Russians and calling Ivanka Trump “dumb as a brick.” Mr. Trump, described by his spokeswoman as “furious, disgusted,” fired back by saying that Mr. Bannon had “lost his mind.”

In a written statement, the president excoriated Mr. Bannon as a self-promoting exaggerator who had “very little to do with our historic victory” in the 2016 presidential election and was “only in it for himself.” Rather than representing Mr. Trump’s hard-core political base or supporting his agenda to “make America great again,” Mr. Bannon was “simply seeking to burn it all down,” the president said.

While Mr. Trump had remained in touch with Mr. Bannon after pushing him out of the White House over the summer, the two now appear to have reached a breaking point. “Steve Bannon has nothing to do with me or my presidency,” Mr. Trump said. “When he was fired, he not only lost his job, he lost his mind.”

Assuming it lasts — and with Mr. Trump, nothing is ever certain — the schism could test whether he or Mr. Bannon has more resonance with the conservative base that has sustained the president through a tumultuous tenure marked by low poll numbers. Mr. Bannon’s Breitbart News has been a key weapon in Mr. Trump’s hostile takeover of the Republican Party.

Cheering the breakup on Wednesday were establishment Republicans who resent Mr. Bannon’s bomb-throwing style and his vows to wage war on incumbent lawmakers in the party primaries this year. Senate Republicans could barely contain their glee as they redistributed Mr. Trump’s statement blasting Mr. Bannon with the note “in case you missed it” and a smiling face symbol. By afternoon, candidates whom Mr. Bannon has endorsed in a handful of races faced pressure to disavow his remarks about the president’s son.

At the White House on Wednesday morning, aides who had kept a watchful eye on Mr. Bannon’s efforts to make himself a kingmaker saw an opening to finally rid themselves of him. They encouraged the president to hit back publicly, and Mr. Trump went through at least three drafts of a statement with his communications director, Hope Hicks, and other aides before sending out a final version unlike any issued by a president against a top adviser in modern times.

“Steve pretends to be at war with the media, which he calls the opposition party, yet he spent his time at the White House leaking false information to the media to make himself seem far more important than he was,” Mr. Trump said in the statement. “It is the only thing he does well. Steve was rarely in a one-on-one meeting with me and only pretends to have had influence to fool a few people with no access and no clue, whom he helped write phony books.”

A private lawyer representing Mr. Trump sent Mr. Bannon a letter on Wednesday directing him to cease and desist making derogatory comments about the president and his family and threatening a defamation lawsuit. “Legal action is imminent,” said the letter, first reported by ABC News and confirmed by a person close to the president.



Despite Bitcoin’s Dive, a Former Soviet Republic Is Still Betting Big on It

Redefining Representation: The Women of the 116th Congress

1 Woman, 12 Months, 52 Places
Mr. Bannon declined to comment on Wednesday. But people close to him said that he believed that the president would eventually come around because Mr. Trump would need help with his base at a moment when his political muscle appeared to be on the wane. Mr. Bannon’s Breitbart site reported the contretemps but did not return fire against Mr. Trump on Wednesday.

The president was responding to comments attributed to Mr. Bannon in a new book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” by Michael Wolff. The book, due out next Tuesday, was obtained by The Guardian, which first reported Mr. Bannon’s remarks, and New York magazine then posted an excerpt. A copy of the book was later obtained by .

In the book, Mr. Bannon was quoted suggesting that Donald Trump Jr.; Jared Kushner, his brother-in-law; and Paul Manafort, then the campaign chairman, had been “treasonous” and “unpatriotic” for meeting with Russians after being promised incriminating information on Hillary Clinton during a June 2016 meeting at Trump Tower in Manhattan.

“The three senior guys in the campaign thought it was a good idea to meet with a foreign government inside Trump Tower in the conference room on the 25th floor — with no lawyers. They didn’t have any lawyers,” Mr. Bannon said after The Times revealed the meeting in July 2017, according to Mr. Wolff’s book.

 for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.



“Even if you thought that this was not treasonous, or unpatriotic, or bad shit, and I happen to think it’s all of that, you should have called the F.B.I. immediately,” Mr. Bannon continued, according to the book.

He also said that the chance that Donald Trump Jr. did not introduce the Russians to his father “is zero,” a supposition rather than an assertion but one that would contradict the president’s insistence that he knew nothing about the meeting at the time.

According to Mr. Wolff, Mr. Bannon also predicted that a special counsel investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and any coordination with Trump aides would ultimately center on money laundering, an assessment that could lend credibility to an investigation the president has repeatedly called a witch hunt. “They’re going to crack Don Jr. like an egg on national TV,” Mr. Bannon was quoted as saying.

Donald Trump Jr. did not immediately respond to a request for comment. But he jabbed at Mr. Bannon on Twitter on Wednesday when he reposted a message noting that Alabama now had a Democratic senator. “Thanks Steve,” the younger Mr. Trump wrote. “Keep up the great work.”

The president and his advisers blamed Mr. Bannon for backing Roy S. Moore for the Republican nomination in Alabama and then pressing Mr. Trump into endorsing Mr. Moore even after he was accused of sexual misconduct with several women and girls as young as 14. Mr. Moore ended up losing last month, embarrassing Mr. Trump and souring his already complicated and strained relationship with Mr. Bannon.

Mr. Trump grew more upset about an interview Mr. Bannon gave to Vanity Fair that criticized Mr. Kushner’s contacts with Russians. During his Christmas break in Florida, Mr. Trump stewed and consulted with aides and relatives, according to advisers, but ultimately opted against responding publicly to avoid drawing more attention to Mr. Bannon’s remarks.

But accusing the president’s eldest son of treason crossed the line. “Going after the president’s son in an absolutely outrageous and unprecedented way is probably not the best way to curry favor with anybody,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.

The book presents Mr. Trump as an ill-informed and thoroughly unserious candidate and president, engaged mainly in satisfying his own ego and presiding over a dysfunctional White House. It reports that early in the 2016 campaign, one aide, Sam Nunberg, was sent to explain the Constitution to the candidate. “I got as far as the Fourth Amendment,” it quotes Mr. Nunberg as saying, “before his finger is pulling down on his lip and his eyes are rolling back in his head.”

The book cites an email from an unnamed White House aide offering a harsh assessment of Mr. Trump’s operation that was said to reflect the view of Gary D. Cohn, the president’s national economics adviser: “It’s worse than you can imagine. An idiot surrounded by clowns. Trump won’t read anything — not one-page memos, not the brief policy papers; nothing. He gets up halfway through meetings with world leaders because he is bored.”

The book also asserts that Mr. Cohn and other advisers and associates of Mr. Trump deride him in private, calling him an “idiot,” a “dope” or “dumb” as dirt. Thomas J. Barrack, a friend and adviser to Mr. Trump, was quoted telling a friend that the president is “not only crazy, he’s stupid.”

Reached by telephone on Wednesday, Mr. Barrack said that account was “totally false.” Mr. Barrack added, “It’s clear to anyone who knows me that those aren’t my words and inconsistent with anything I’ve ever said.” He said that Mr. Wolff never ran that quotation by him to ask whether it was accurate.

A longtime media columnist and author, Mr. Wolff brings a high profile, vivid writing style and years of experience but sometimes mixed reviews to the task of chronicling Mr. Trump’s White House. Interview subjects have complained in the past that he took comments meant to be off the record and used them. In a 2004 profile, the journalist Michelle Cottle wrote that “the scenes in his columns aren’t recreated so much as created — springing from Wolff’s imagination rather than from actual knowledge of events.”

Mr. Wolff clearly benefited from close cooperation from Mr. Bannon and the book is infused with his views. The author was frequently seen in Mr. Bannon’s office while he was still working in the White House. According to Ms. Sanders, Mr. Wolff spoke with the president just once, for five to seven minutes, in the first month of the administration, when Mr. Trump called Mr. Wolff to thank him for his criticism of a Times article that the president did not like.

Going beyond the president’s pushback on Mr. Bannon, Ms. Sanders attacked the book as a whole, hoping to dis its reporting. Ms. Sanders released a statement calling it “trashy tabloid fiction” that is “filled with false and misleading accounts from individuals who have no access or influence with the White House.”

Mr. Wolff, responding by email, said he was “wholly comfortable with my numerous sources.”

Agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation’s New York office have been investigating an attempt by international hackers to break into computers at the Trump Organization, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.

Early this month, at a meeting at the bureau’s offices in Lower Manhattan, some of the agents briefed President Trump’s two grown sons, Eric Trump and Donald J. Trump Jr., about the attempted intrusion, the people said. All spoke on the condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter.

Mr. Trump’s sons began running the Trump Organization after their father became president.

A spokeswoman for the F.B.I. declined to comment on the investigation, which was first reported by ABC News, or to comment on the briefing.

Eric Trump confirmed in a telephone interview on Thursday evening that he had spoken with the F.B.I. about matters related to computer security, but declined to elaborate, other than to say there had been no successful intrusion into the company’s computer system.

“We’ve spoken to them about things totally unrelated to anything that’s going on or anything related to a campaign,” he said.

While one of the people said the hackers had conducted their attack from overseas, it was unclear in which nation it had originated, when it began, how it had been uncovered, and why it had failed.

Amanda Miller, a spokeswoman for the Trump organization, declined to answer questions about the attempted intrusion or the company’s approach to computer security. But she suggested in a statement that it was not the first time the company had been targeted by hackers.

“Like virtually every other company these days, we are routinely targeted by cyberterrorists whose only focus is to inflict harm on great American businesses,” the statement said. “To be clear, the Trump Organization was not hacked. While we will remain vigilant in fighting off any attempts to do so, we are confident in the steps we have taken to protect our businesses and safeguard our information.”

The disclosure that the president’s sons were briefed by the F.B.I. on the attempted intrusion in early May comes at an awkward time.



Despite Bitcoin’s Dive, a Former Soviet Republic Is Still Betting Big on It

How Does a Writer Put a Drug Trip Into Words?

Rebuilding a Puerto Rico Barrio: ‘Dead Is the Only Way They’ll Ever Get Me to Leave’
The bureau’s agents have been conducting an investigation into whether members of Mr. Trump’s campaign colluded with the Russian government’s effort to influence the presidential election.

There has been no indication, however, that the investigation into the attempted intrusion at the Trump Organization — or the briefing agents conducted for Eric Trump and Donald J. Trump Jr. — was in any way tied to that investigation.

After his election, President Trump said that he could continue to run his family business if he wanted but that he nonetheless would turn the Trump Organization over to his two grown sons.
