GREENVILLE, S.C. — Tensions among three of the Republican presidential hopefuls vying for support from the establishment wing of the party burst into public view this week, suggesting a new, more combative phase of a campaign that has been dominated by attacks between Donald J. Trump and nearly all of his rivals.
The crossfire began on Wednesday in New Hampshire when Jeb Bush compared Senator Marco Rubio’s message of generational change to that of President Obama’s. And it escalated on Thursday in Iowa, where Mr. Rubio’s staff ejected a videographer working for a “super PAC” supporting Mr. Bush from a campaign event — and then took a more personal turn on Friday when Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio mocked Mr. Bush’s decline in the polls.
With Mr. Trump still at the top of the polls as the calendar moves to October, the other candidates feel a growing urgency to stand out as more voters begin paying attention to the Republican contest and the bombastic casino magnate continues to command much of the media coverage of the race. Mr. Bush, especially, is campaigning more aggressively as he slips in many national and state polls.
Introducing himself at a policy forum on the campus of Furman University here Friday, Mr. Bush said that in his time as the governor of Florida he “disrupted the old order” and “turned the place upside down.”
Repeating a word he has used with greater frequency as it becomes clear that voters have an appetite for candidates willing to challenge the political status quo, Mr. Bush added, “I think Washington, D.C., needs a little bit of disruption, as well.”
And speaking to reporters after the event, he dismissed Mr. Kasich’s criticism, boasting that he was more accomplished than the Ohio governor and every other candidate in the field.
“I will match it with any candidate running for president,” Mr. Bush said of his record.
He recounted his success cutting state taxes and reducing the state work force while noting Florida’s economic growth during his tenure. Putting aside any inherited Bush modesty for the moment, Mr. Bush asked: “If I don’t toot my own horn, who’s going to toot it?”
But he has not just been promoting himself of late. In an interview with CNN on Wednesday, Mr. Bush pointedly linked Mr. Rubio to Mr. Obama.
“Look, we had a president who came in and said the same kind of thing — new and improved, hope and change — and he didn’t have the leadership skills to fix things,” said the former governor.
The same night, after a New Hampshire town hall meeting, Mr. Bush also seemed to take aim at Mr. Rubio’s voting record, with the lowest attendance rate in the Senate this year at 70 percent. 
“I think if you had a dock-in-pay strategy, you’d probably get more attendance,” he said, before an aide rushed him away.
Thursday night, in Cedar Falls, Iowa, Mr. Rubio’s supporters hurled the political equivalent of a brushback pitch at Mr. Bush, ejecting a video tracker from the former governor’s “super PAC” who tried to record Mr. Rubio at his own campaign event and then fingering him to Politico, which reported the stymied surveillance.
Mr. Rubio has refrained from criticizing Mr. Bush by name, but has consistently warned Republicans against nominating “the next person in line or the most familiar name” and, on Thursday, not-so-cryptically said the party should not elect “the person all the experts tell us we have to vote for.”
Perhaps feeling left out from the public back-and-forth, Mr. Kasich and his aides gleefully seized on a report that the Bush super PAC had been doing research at the Ohio library which holds the papers from his 18 years in Congress.
“I would think that they’re in there because they are getting nervous,” Mr. Kasich told reporters in New Hampshire on Friday. “When you are trailing in places like New Hampshire, where John Sununu has built a great team, and you’re not doing so hot in other places, of course they are going to go looking around at who might be the mature adult.” (Mr. Sununu, the former Republican senator from New Hampshire, is a Kasich backer.)
In what is itself a sign of how the campaign is evolving, the Bush super PAC made no apology for its efforts against Mr. Rubio and Mr. Kasich. A spokesman for Right to Rise, Paul Lindsay, said the group was “collecting routine, issue-based research on all the candidates in the race.”
“Iowa and central Ohio are also wonderful places to visit this time of year,” he added.
Mr. Kasich’s advisers did not try to conceal their delight over what they said was Mr. Bush’s nervousness.
“I don’t want to say the Bush campaign is panicked yet but I think panic is not that far down the road given his resources, his name ID,” said John Weaver, Mr. Kasich’s strategist, adding, “No empire, even a fading one, is going to go quietly into the night.”
Another veteran of presidential campaigns said the change in tone owed to voters beginning to seriously consider potential presidents.
“As we get closer to caucuses and primaries, this race will swing away from registering a mood and swing toward selecting a nominee,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican communications expert who worked on the last three White House races. “That’s where this new round of engagement is coming from. Bush, Kasich and Rubio are scraping up against each other right now in an effort to be in the best position when voters get to that point.”
Donald J. Trump calls it his own version of a newspaper: a stream of boasts, taunts and opinions, delivered on Twitter at all hours of the day to his more than four million followers. Since 2009, he has used the social media platform to build his brand — and, now, to communicate with voters as a candidate for president. Below, a sampling of his tweets and an analysis of what makes them so Trumpian.
A classic Trump tweet: touching on pop culture, justifying his own habits (he is a full-freight Coke drinker) and insulting strangers (the non-thin who prefer Diet Coke).
Several Trump tweets are unexpectedly personal. He fondly quotes his mother and father and expresses gratitude for their wisdom (and the wealth they left him).
Timed to defend his first debate performance and deflate the outrage against him, this summarizes Mr. Trump’s message of political outsiderism: I talk like you, not like them.
Mr. Trump is unusually engaged with his followers, frequently responding to their tweets with a pithy comment or message of thanks — a relatively rare gesture for prominent people or presidential candidates on Twitter. The risk? Falling prey to pranksters, who have repeatedly tricked Mr. Trump into replying to their messages. (“Great,” he wrote when somebody playfully claimed that “my dad” — a British politician, ineligible to participate in United States elections — would vote for Mr. Trump.)
Mr. Trump has a weakness for celebrity gossip, tweeting about the love lives of Katy Perry and John Mayer, or Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson (back in 2012). The upside: He taps into the zeitgeist. The downside: He can come off as frivolous.
Mr. Trump delights in tweaking his rivals, but there is a political strategy behind the schoolyard taunts. He is careful to insult the candidate, not his supporters. Here, in fact, he is inviting those backing Rand Paul to give him a chance, even as he indirectly mocks the candidate.
The actress Kim Novak, a megastar of 1950s cinema, was a near-recluse when friends urged her to take a chance and appear at the Academy Awards last year.
Sitting at home, Donald J. Trump spotted Ms. Novak, then 81, on his television screen and recoiled at her appearance. He tapped out a message on Twitter.
“I’m having a real hard time watching,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Kim should sue her plastic surgeon!”
To Ms. Novak, who read the message after the show, it was a devastating setback in her return to public life: She retreated to Oregon, fell into what she called “a tailspin” and refused to leave her house for days. In an open letter to her fans a few weeks later, Ms. Novak denounced Mr. Trump’s tweet as bullying.
For Mr. Trump, a serial exploiter of old-line media, it was a painful yet potent lesson in the power of new media to agitate and motivate a vast, unseen audience. Inundated with replies of disgust and support, he eventually backtracked online (“I was always a big fan of Kim Novak”) and sent her a rueful private letter.
A year later, Mr. Trump has mastered Twitter in a way no candidate for president ever has, unleashing and redefining its power as a tool of political promotion, distraction, score-settling and attack — and turning a 140-character task that other candidates farm out to young staff members into a centerpiece of his campaign.
In the process, he has managed to fulfill a vision, long predicted but slow to materialize, sketched out a decade ago by a handful of digital campaign strategists: a White House candidacy that forgoes costly, conventional methods of political communication and relies instead on the free, urgent and visceral platforms of social media.
“He’s used social media to replace the traditional apparatus of a political campaign,” said Zac Moffatt, who oversaw Mitt Romney’s digital outreach in 2012 and co-founded Targeted Victory, a consulting firm focused on online campaign tactics. “Trump is living on this medium.”
Now, as Mr. Trump enters an uncertain period in his campaign, even rival campaigns acknowledge that Twitter is providing a powerful bulwark against a slide in his poll numbers, by allowing millions of supporters to make his case for him and deflect the controversies he delights in touching off.
His online dominance is striking: Over the past two months, on Twitter alone, he has been mentioned in 6.3 million conversations, eight times as many as Republican rivals like Marco Rubio, Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson — not to mention more than three times as many as Hillary Rodham Clinton and nearly four times as many as Bernie Sanders. He is retweeted more than twice as often as Mrs. Clinton and about 13 times more frequently than Jeb Bush, according to data compiled as of Friday by Edelman Berland, a market research firm that studies social media. His Twitter following (4.36 million) dwarfs that of the rest of the Republican field, and in the coming weeks, he is expected to surpass Mrs. Clinton (4.39 million).
In an interview at his office — interrupted repeatedly by Mr. Trump’s picking up his Samsung Galaxy cellphone, loading new tweets with his index finger and marveling at his nonstop mentions (“Watch this!” he implored) — the candidate compared his Twitter feed to a newspaper with a single, glorious voice: his own.
“The Ernest Hemingway of a hundred and forty characters,” he said, quoting a fan.
In the past, Mr. Trump said, when dealing with a dishonest rival “there was nothing you can do other than sue.”
“Which I’ve done,” he added. “But it’s a long process.”
Now, he simply tweets. Caustically, colorfully and repeatedly.
Suddenly, he said of his foes, “I have more power than they do.”
“I can let people know that they were a fraud,” he continued. “I can let people know that they have no talent, that they didn’t know what they’re doing. You have a voice.”
On Twitter, Mr. Trump has assembled an online SWAT team of devoted (some say rabid) supporters who spring into action with stunning speed. In a pattern that has played out over and over, he makes a provocative remark, like one about Mrs. Fiorina’s face — “Would anybody vote for that?’’ — and hundreds of thousands of strangers defend him, spread his message and engage in emotional debates with his critics, all the while ensuring he remains the subject of a constant conversation.
When Mr. Trump wanted to defend his failure to correct a white voter who declared that Barack Obama is a Muslim, he tapped out a message on Sept. 19.
It was quickly retweeted by 7,000 people, and over roughly six hours it provoked more than 1,000 discussions that mentioned him. Forty percent of those were pro-Trump in sentiment, according to Edelman Berland.
The next day, Mr. Bush fired off an unusually pointed tweet, by his standards, attacking a campaign ad about Sept. 11 that was made by allies of Mrs. Clinton. But its life cycle was comparatively short and tepid. It received only about one-twelfth as many retweets, and provoked around 200 conversations over about an hour, of which 5 percent were pro-Bush, the firm found.
Mike Berland, a political operative who worked on Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is chief executive of Edelman Berland, calls it the “Wall of Trump.”
“We’ve never seen this before in politics,” Mr. Berland said. “This is not just a rally that happens once in a while. This is a continuous Trump rally that happens on Twitter at all hours. He fills the Twitter stadium every day.”
Many mornings around 3:30, Eric Popkin, a 53-year-old project manager at an architecture firm with no ties to the campaign, logs on to his computer in Orlando, Fla., and creates elaborate graphics in support of Mr. Trump that he disseminates on Twitter.
Mr. Trump’s candor and style inspire a loyalty he cannot quite explain. “It’s like a sports team. If you are from New York, and you like the Jets or Giants and somebody is bad-mouthing your team, there is kind of knee-jerk reaction to defend them,” Mr. Popkin said. “We have an emotional connection to him. It’s good old human nature.”
Not all of the outpouring is spontaneous. Supporters have organized themselves into online squads that defend Mr. Trump. A man identifying himself as Gary Forbes has recruited volunteer “operatives” on Twitter, sending out daily emails directing them to emphasize pro-Trump messages (“Trump’s immigration plan will protect thousands of women from abuse”) and target rival candidates (“What Jeb must do for Fox Billionaire Murdoch’s $$$”). A project code-named “Magic Kingdom” took aim last week at Mr. Rubio, the senator from Florida, according to an email obtained by The New York Times.
Asked about the effort, Mr. Forbes directed questions to the Trump campaign. A Trump spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said the campaign had no affiliation with Mr. Forbes.
Mr. Trump, 69, is an improbable virtuoso of the tweet. He has no computer in his office (a staff member brings in a laptop to show him videos) and asks aides to print his emails for consumption the old-fashioned way. But around 2011, his staff turned him on to the possibilities of @realdonaldtrump, a sleepy account started in 2009 that largely quoted from Mr. Trump’s books.
He quickly adapted to Twitter’s stock in trade: endless feuds, ego stroking and casual cruelty. He usually dictates messages to his assistant during the day and types them himself at home or on the golf course, from which he has sent more than 100, according to geographic data embedded in his tweets. The most frequently used words in his tweets: “great” (more than 700 times), “winner” or “winners” (43), and “loser” or “losers” (34). In all, he has sent more than 28,000 tweets — the rough equivalent of 12 a day.
Mr. Trump has called Arianna Huffington, the liberal website publisher, “unattractive both inside and out”; described Bette Midler as “extremely unattractive”; and declared that President Obama had guaranteed “you won’t see another black president for generations.”
Asked about his judgment in sending those messages, he defended all but one: his mockery of Ms. Novak. “I would have preferred I didn’t send it,” Mr. Trump said. “That was done in fun, but sometimes you do things in fun and they turn out to be hurtful, and I don’t like doing that.”
He has developed strong views about the rules, rituals and rhythms of Twitter. On the 140-character limit: “I wish it were longer on 10 percent of the occasions.”
On deleting tweets: “One of the things I do find is that when you delete it, it becomes a bigger story than having it.”
That, of course, has not stopped him from deleting tweets, like a 2013 message in which he extended “best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date, September 11th.”
His followers on Twitter did not seem to mind. Back in his office at Trump Tower the other day, he kept collecting new mentions, even though he had not sent a tweet in hours.
“Look at this,” Mr. Trump beckoned. “So this is eight seconds ago. See that?” Messages scrolled by in a blur. “That’s eight seconds ago these tweets came in.”
He looked up with satisfaction. “How,” he asked, “can you do better than that?”
When Donald J. Trump responded in July to criticism from one of his Republican rivals, Senator Lindsey Graham, by publicly releasing the South Carolina lawmaker’s cellphone number, the public and the press could not get enough of the jaw-dropping stunt.
But on Monday, when Mr. Trump sent a case of Trump brand bottled water to Senator Marco Rubio’s campaign office — poking fun at the Florida senator’s sweaty debate performance and penchant for chugging water — the prank fell notably flat.
While the cellphone gag earned 34,000 mentions in print, broadcast and social media that day, the Rubio water bottle gambit generated just 7,500 mentions — about one-fifth as many — during the same period, according to Zignal Labs, a San Francisco-based analytics company that tracks media.
“A good old Trump stunt just doesn’t generate the media attention that it used to, even on social media,” said Anthony York, an analyst at Zignal Labs.
Though the New York real estate developer still leads the Republican field in national polls, Mr. Trump’s ability to command voter and news media attention simply by being his outlandish, bombastic self is starting to wane. The decline in attention for Mr. Trump seems particularly pronounced in the conservative news media that carry influence over many Republican primary voters.
Though many of the mainstream outlets favored by the Republican establishment — most notably the editorial pages of The Wall Street Journal — have always greeted Mr. Trump’s candidacy with a critical, if not disdainful eye, that discomfort has spread to the news media that speak to the populist base of the Republican Party, whose anger at Washington has helped fuel Mr. Trump’s rise. Fox News opinion commentators no longer go on breathlessly about Mr. Trump’s antics, and conservative talk-radio programs have moved on to fawn over Ben Carson, Carly Fiorina and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.
“It’s kind of a like a season of TV shows: Eventually, people burn out on them,” said Erick Erickson, a conservative commentator who runs RedState.com. “We’ve had a season of Trump and the plot hasn’t changed, there’s no new twist, and people are starting to move on to other TV shows.”
After rescinding an invitation to Mr. Trump from an August candidate forum following the candidate’s attack on Megyn Kelly of Fox News, Mr. Erickson said he received the most hate mail and calls of his career. But, he added, after Mr. Trump’s shaky performance in the Sept. 16 Republican debate, many of those readers and listeners tell him they are returning to the fold, spurred in part by the sense that Mr. Trump is not quite the substantive candidate they had originally thought.
“What all the pro-Trump people don’t understand is that conservatives for the past 20 years have been preprogrammed to go beat Hillary Clinton, and if they perceive him as an obstacle to doing that, they’re going to move on,” he said.
The conservative news media has always been somewhat conflicted over Mr. Trump, whose tax policies and positions on social issues do not entirely align with theirs. But for conservative commentators like Ann Coulter, who, like Mr. Trump, is focused almost entirely on stopping illegal immigration, the issue is not that Mr. Trump is losing the support of the conservative news media. It is that he never had unified support in this influential space in the first place.
“The anti-Trump G.O.P. media outlets have gone from blind sputtering hatred to angry contempt and now seem to have settled on impotent rage,” Ms. Coulter said.
News media like CNN also still rely on Mr. Trump to drive ratings, though he is less of a draw than he had been in months after he announced his candidacy. In an interview with CNN on Tuesday, Mr. Trump highlighted his position at the top of the field and showed no signs of toning down his bombast. “I’m not going anywhere,” Mr. Trump said. “I’m leading every poll. I’m going to win, and I’m going to make our country great again.”
But there are signs that many voters and commentators have at least started to move on. When Mr. Trump came out strong in the primary polls, the conservative radio personality Glenn Beck, who also owns The Blaze, a TV and digital news outlet, reached out to Mr. Trump’s office to arrange for him to come on the program. But Mr. Beck’s interest in Mr. Trump appears to have cooled. He has had Mr. Carson, Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Cruz on his nationally syndicated radio program, but said he no longer had any interest in “the circus” of hosting Mr. Trump.
“I think he’s a schoolyard bully who does not reflect any of the values and principles that I see from Americans on both sides,” Mr. Beck said, expressing frustration that the anger Mr. Trump has tapped into is often associated with the Tea Party. “He’s not a Tea Party guy,” he said.
Mr. Trump has tried to use being shunned in the news media to his advantage. But he may have hurt his chances of reaching his voter base when he instigated an on-again, off-again public feud with Fox News — the highest-rated cable TV channel in the country, which holds enormous sway over Republican primary voters — and its chairman and chief executive, Roger E. Ailes.
Mr. Beck, whose program aired on Fox News until 2011, said he questioned Mr. Trump’s endgame. “If I were a betting man, I’d put money on Roger Ailes every time,” Mr. Beck said.
The increasingly negative coverage of Mr. Trump by some conservative news media accompanies a less drastic decline in interest occurring across the mainstream news media and even among some voters.
An analysis by Kalev H. Leetaru, a fellow at George Washington University who studies media and society, found that although Mr. Trump still dominated Republican candidate mentions on network television — nearly 54 percent of all mentions — the blanket coverage started to slowly decline at the end of August and into September. His share of airtime dropped below 40 percent multiple times as candidates like former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, Mr. Carson, Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Rubio have garnered more attention.
“It’s always the new thing that wins, and at a certain point you reach saturation, and with Trump we’re kind of at a saturation point,” Mr. Leetaru said.
 Two.42.Solutions, a nonpartisan media analytics company, also found that voter conversations about Mr. Trump took on a more negative tone after the second debate, during which he sharply criticized several rivals.
“The tide is turning in terms of sentiment, at least for Mr. Trump,” said Mohammad Hamid, a founder and chief technology officer of the company. “Our data shows the bubble will burst. It’s just a matter of when.”
And Zignal Labs found that as Mr. Trump’s share of news media attention declined, Mr. Carson and Mrs. Fiorina had increased shares.
“It’s an interesting question of who is losing who,” said Josh Ginsberg, the chief executive of Zignal Labs. “Are voters reacting off of conservative media, or is conservative media reacting off of voters?”
But, Mr. Ginsberg added, losing the conservative news media could have long-term ramifications for a Trump candidacy.
“Primary voters in states like Iowa or South Carolina or New Hampshire are going to get their cues from these outlets,” he said, “so Trump has really big issues he needs to look at here.”
The leading contenders for the Republican nomination for president tell us three interesting things about America.
First, many G.O.P. voters are so disenchanted they’re willing to entrust the country to candidates — Donald Trump, Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina — with zero experience in elective office or military command. Only two men without previous time in major elective office or the military have been president, Herbert Hoover and William Howard Taft, and both had held cabinet posts. No president has ever been as inexperienced as any of these three leading Republican candidates.
Second, the public feels an odd awe for C.E.O.s and presumes they know how to run things, even if their records suggest otherwise. This cultural reverence for C.E.O.s perhaps also explains why pay packages have increased — and why Fiorina was allowed to take home a $21 million severance package after she was fired as Hewlett-Packard’s chief executive for incompetence.
Third, the only kind of welfare that carries no stigma in America is corporate welfare. For all Trump’s criticisms of government, his family wealth came from feeding at the government trough. His father, Fred Trump, leveraged government housing programs into a construction business; the empire was founded on public money.
My bet is that Trump, Fiorina and Carson will fade, and that voters will eventually turn to a more conventional candidate, perhaps Senator Marco Rubio. From the Democrats’ point of view, the scariest Republican ticket might pair Rubio with John Kasich. Rubio has natural political skills, projects youth and change, and would signal that the Republican Party is ready to expand its demographic base. Rubio and Kasich would also have a decent chance of winning their home states, Florida and Ohio — and any ticket that could win Florida and Ohio would be a strong contender.
But instead, Republican primary voters for now are pursuing a bizarre flirtation with three candidates who are the least qualified since, well, maybe since Trump put his toe in the waters before the 2000 election.
In that sense, they offer a window into the American psyche — part of which is our adulation of the C.E.O.
There’s something to be said for C.E.O.s’ entering politics: In theory, they have management expertise and financial savvy. Then again, it didn’t work so well with Dick Cheney.
More broadly, the United States has overdone the cult of the C.E.O., partly explaining why at the largest companies the ratio of C.E.O. compensation to typical worker pay rose from 20 to one in 1965 to 303 to one in 2014, according to the Economic Policy Institute.
In any case, even if you were conducting a job search for a great C.E.O. to lead the free world, you wouldn’t turn to either Trump or Fiorina.
My sense is that Trump isn’t the idiot that critics often claim (the most common words voters used to describe him in a recent poll were “idiot,” “jerk,” “stupid” and “dumb”). This is a man who is near the top of diverse fields: real estate, book writing, television and now presidential politics. He’s a born showman, a master of branding and marketing. But he doesn’t seem a master of investing.
Back in 1976, Trump said he was worth “more than $200 million.” If he had simply put $200 million in an index fund and reinvested dividends, he would be worth $12 billion today, notes Max Ehrenfreund of The Washington Post. In fact, he’s worth $4.5 billion, according to Forbes.
In other words, Trump’s business acumen seems less than half as impressive as that of an ordinary Joe who parks his savings in an index fund.
An index fund might also have been less ethically problematic. In the 1970s, the Justice Department accused Trump of refusing to rent to blacks. And in 2013, New York State’s attorney general sued him, alleging “persistent fraudulent, illegal and deceptive conduct”; Trump denied the charges.
If Trump’s performance as a business executive was problematic, Fiorina’s was exceptional. Exceptionally bad.
Put aside the fact that she’s the C.E.O. who fired thousands of workers while raking in more than $100 million in compensation and pushing H.P. to acquire five corporate jets. Just looking at the bottom line, she earned her place on those “worst C.E.O.” lists she appeared on.
As Steven Rattner wrote in The Times, Hewlett-Packard’s share price fell 52 percent in the nearly six years she was at the helm. H.P. did worse than its peers: IBM fell 27.5 percent, and Dell, 3 percent.
Oh, and on the day she was fired, the stock market celebrated: H.P. shares soared 7 percent.
If I wanted a circus ringmaster, I’d hire Trump. If I wanted advice on brain surgery or hospital management, I’d turn to Carson. Fiorina would make an articulate television pundit. But for president?
The fact that these tyros are the three leading presidential contenders for a major political party is a sad window into our political dysfunction.
Donald J. Trump, like any good reality TV protagonist, does not inspire neutral opinions. He is a savior or a disaster; a bigot or a patriot; a truth-teller or a buffoon; a commanding front-runner or a bubble on the verge of bursting. On one point, at least, there is something like political pundit consensus: that Mr. Trump’s abrasive, celebrity-driven, Don Ricklesian candidacy is unprecedented.
And it is unprecedented, if your television-watching is limited to C-Span and CNN. But if you’ve watched reality TV over the past decade or two, you’ve seen it plenty. You’ve seen it in Richard Hatch and Russell Hantz, the love-to-hate-them manipulators of “Survivor”; in the backbiting contestants in the boardroom of Mr. Trump’s “The Apprentice”; in Courtney Robertson, the feisty winner of “The Bachelor” who captured her experience in the book “I Didn’t Come Here to Make Friends,” which would make a great title for Mr. Trump’s eventual campaign memoir.
It would be reductive — and dismissive of the conservative and populist forces behind Mr. Trump’s rise — to say that his campaign simply means that politics has become reality TV. But Mr. Trump’s style does suggest that he learned at least as much about campaigning in the boardroom of “The Apprentice” as in any actual boardroom.
Traditional presidential politics is like television in Ed Sullivan’s day, when the big three networks developed the idea of “least objectionable programming” — broad, inoffensive, something-for-everyone shows intended to keep anyone from changing the channel.
Reality TV, like Mr. Trump’s campaign, is a product of a fractious time of niche audiences. When there are hundreds of entertainment outlets, “least objectionable” is death: You need to stand out.
And he does. Like reality TV itself, Mr. Trump is a love-or-hate proposition. In a general election, true, you need much more than 23 percent of the vote (which is Mr. Trump’s number in a recent USA Today/Suffolk University poll of the Republican field). But in today’s television, a 23 share is a landslide — and in a crowded primary in an ideologically fragmented party, it is large enough for first place.
Understanding these dynamics has let Mr. Trump reverse the polarity of primary campaigning. Where traditional candidates have gaffes, he has publicity opportunities. Even his ugliest remarks — saying, after a rough debate on Fox News, that the moderator Megyn Kelly had “blood coming out of her wherever” — seemed, among his followers, to burnish his reputation as a straight shooter. It’s “The Real World” approach to politics: Let me show you, America, what happens when candidates stop being polite and start getting real!
It’s paradoxical that Mr. Trump should be the one to bring primary politics further into the niche-media era. After all, he was a boldface name when Ronald Reagan was president, and there was a time, in the 1990s and the early 2000s, when he seemed like a holdover from the Gordon Gekko ’80s, a nostalgia piece, a Rubik’s Cube, a shoulder pad.
“The Apprentice” revived him as a celebrity, which, business success aside, is the entire point of Donald Trump. The key to Mr. Trump’s appeal as host of the show was the key to his appeal before and since: his attention to surface appearances.
Others have questioned whether Mr. Trump is actually as rich or successful as he says. (Like the debate over whether reality TV is “real,” it’s a concern for detractors but brushed off by the fan base.) But for television purposes, he looked the part, and he did it by happily creating the most vivid pop-culture cartoon of wealth outside a Monopoly box.
From his “Art of the Deal” tabloid-era heyday to today, Mr. Trump has been a rich guy who lives like a lottery winner. His business was in casinos and hotels and golf courses, concrete things you could see and understand, as opposed to Mitt Romney’s chilly abstractions of private equity. Not for him the modesty of hoodie-wearing Silicon Valley: He wore suits and married models and built a 64-story tower in Las Vegas sheathed in 24-karat gold.
He presented an idea of wealth that was brazen and crass and thus to his admirers rang open and honest, whatever legerdemain went into the actual business. This made Mr. Trump a great fit for reality TV, which treats the currency of fame the way he treats the currency of, well, currency. That is, you grow it by flaunting it. (The gilded aesthetic of his properties is more or less that of your typical dating-show mansion.) Likewise on the campaign trail, he didn’t poor-mouth himself or claim to be just like you: He flew on his helicopter to the Iowa State Fair, like the fictional President Charles Lindbergh flying his jet over the Potomac in Philip Roth’s “The Plot Against America.”
His pugilism can be petty and indiscriminate; he began the second Republican debate by saying unprompted that Rand Paul, scarcely a threat to him, “shouldn’t even be on this stage.” But that’s reality TV combat: You fight to prove you’re a fighter. Mr. Trump knows that it is better to be the instigator than the instigated-upon. It allows you to set the rhythm, change the subject, get in people’s heads, determine the narrative.
After all, can you name a single noncelebrity contestant from “The Apprentice”? If so, it’s probably Omarosa, who didn’t win the show’s first season but, because of her clashes with fellow contestants and Mr. Trump, was its breakout star. (She also was a model for the appalling history of reality shows painting black women as belligerent villains, and she later claimed to be the victim of editing. But she was a star nonetheless.)
Mr. Trump seems to have learned from his apprentices. Facing elimination by him in the boardroom on “The Apprentice” was like being trapped in a cage with a capricious monster; you didn’t know what might anger him or why, but it was your job to make sure he ate your opponent instead of you. The situation rewarded fast talking and improvisation. And Mr. Trump’s campaign style is nothing if not improvisatory — tactical eruptions to throw rivals off-balance, to dismiss tough questions, to promise easy answers without details, to survive until the next episode.
He’s lived and campaigned by reality-show creeds: There’s no such thing as bad attention; apologies are weakness; whining is for haters and losers. And winning (Mr. Trump’s favorite gerund, like Charlie Sheen’s) is its own justification. Like the winners on “Survivor” who eventually get praised for backstabbing their way to victory — they were just playing the game! — Mr. Trump has thus far been able to make his poll numbers the rationale for his tactics.
Of course, if his numbers start heading dramatically down, that same dynamic could set up a self-sustaining negative feedback loop, a narrative that justifies his downfall, what they call in the reality TV business “the loser edit.”
If Mr. Trump does end up fading, as some analysts are beginning to predict, you could look at “The Apprentice” for a parallel. It was, as its host would say, huge in 2004; its first finale had over 28 million viewers. Then it declined. You could blame overscheduling, poor lead-ins, a 2005 spinoff starring Martha Stewart. But it also had a gimmick, Mr. Trump himself, that lost its novelty. In reality TV, successful formats (“Survivor,” “Dancing With the Stars”) can last a long time, but individual personalities — Paris Hilton, Simon Cowell — wear thin. Mr. Trump was not just the host but the game, and the game got old.
But if you’re looking at “The Apprentice” for signs of the future of the celebrity-political complex, it’s also worth noting that the show never went away. It’s lasted 14 seasons, having switched over to a modestly rated “Celebrity Apprentice” format. And though NBC cut Mr. Trump from the show after his campaign controversies, it will return next year with another entertainer-turned-politician (turned entertainer again), Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The star may come and go. The show will go on.
Fox Sports 1’s marketing of Saturday’s U.S.A. vs. Mexico Concacaf playoff game fired up American fans in an unintended way Friday with a promotional commercial using comments made by Donald J. Trump on the presidential campaign trail as a way to lead cheers for the United States national team.
The video was promoted as a response to an earlier TV Azteca ad that used Trump’s words as a way to promote Mexico in the game. But Fox’s choice of Trump to promote the United States team seemed, at best, questionable. He has built his campaign for president around anti-immigration positions, especially those from Mexico, and has described Mexicans who have entered the United States illegally as rapists and criminals.
In the video, interspersed with clips of the United States and Mexican teams in action, Trump is seen saying, “Our country has tremendous people, tremendous potential,” “these are the best and the finest,” and “bigger, better and stronger, and we will make American great again.” He is also quoted saying, “I love the Mexican people,” and “they have amazing spirit.”
Fox’s use of Trump to promote the match prompted a quick and mostly negative response on Twitter, with people objecting not only to Trump but to the politicizing of the match. The current United States team includes several Mexican-American players, and immigrants have played a role in its success throughout its history.
The main American fan group, the American Outlaws, tweeted a one-word response to the video almost immediately: No. But others soon piled on.
Fox declined to comment on the video, and U.S. Soccer made no statements about it.
Multiple people familiar with the video, however, said U.S. Soccer had no input into its content, and the federation did nothing to promote it. U.S. Soccer, which regularly works with its television partners to amplify each side’s advertising campaigns, did not link to the Trump video from any of its social media accounts.
The United States will face Mexico on Saturday night at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif. The match is a one-game playoff to select the country that will represent Concacaf, the regional confederation that includes North and Central American and the Caribbean, in the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup in Russia. That tournament is considered an important dress rehearsal for the 2018 World Cup.
In unmistakable ways over the last two weeks, whether he has intended to or not, Donald J. Trump has started to articulate a way out of the presidential race: a verbal parachute that makes clear he has contemplated the factors that would cause him to end his bid.
It is a prospect that many in the political establishment have privately considered as the actual voting grows closer.
In three television interviews, Mr. Trump, who has made his standing in the polls a central facet of his campaign message, spoke about what would prompt him to quit a race in which he is currently leading in the polls.
“I’m not a masochist,” Mr. Trump told Chuck Todd, the host of “Meet the Press” on NBC News, last weekend. “If I were doing poorly, if I saw myself going down, if you would stop calling me because you no longer have any interest in Trump because ‘he has no chance,’ I’d go back to my business.”
It was similar to what he said in an interview with the “Today” show a few days earlier, and at another point to “60 Minutes” on CBS.
In interviews this week, Mr. Trump insisted he was in the race to win, and took aim at “troublemakers” in the news media who, he said, were misrepresenting his remarks. “I’m never getting out,” he insisted Friday on MSNBC.
Mr. Trump keeps noting that he still leads in every major Republican poll and is in a political position that others would envy, and he says he will spend the money to keep his candidacy alive. But he conceded in another interview: “To me, it’s all about winning. I want to win — whereas a politician doesn’t have to win because they’ll just keep running for office all their life.”
He said he had not contemplated a threshold for what would cause him to get out of the race. And he noted that his crowds were even larger than those of Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who is drawing thousands to rallies in seeking the Democratic nomination.
While Mr. Trump still leads major national polls and surveys in early voting states, that lead has recently shrunk nationally, and the most recent NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll showed his support eroding in New Hampshire, the first primary state. His recent comments have lent credence to the views of political observers who had long believed the perennially self-promoting real estate mogul would ultimately not allow himself to face the risk of losing.
“Even back in the summer, when he was somewhat defying gravity, somewhat defying conventional wisdom, it seemed to me there would be a moment when reality sets in,” said Rob Stutzman, a Republican political strategist who is based in California. “He would not leave himself to have his destiny settled by actual voters going to the polls or the caucuses.”
Mr. Stutzman was skeptical that Mr. Trump would be willing to endure the grind of a campaign needed to amass enough delegates to make him a factor at the Republican convention in July. That could mean a long slog accruing delegates in states where he may have to be content with third- or fourth-place performances — showings that could undercut the hyperconfident aura Mr. Trump cultivates.
Other Republican candidates are now signaling less fear of offending Mr. Trump than in the past. Senator Ted Cruz, who has treated his rival gingerly in the hope of getting Mr. Trump’s backers if he were to fade, openly mused Thursday about Mr. Trump’s ultimate political demise in an interview with a WABC Radio host, Rita Cosby.
“I don’t believe Donald is going to be the nominee,” Mr. Cruz said, “and I think, in time, the lion’s share of his supporters end up with us.”
Stuart Stevens, who was the chief strategist to Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential race, also doubts that Mr. Trump will stay in over the long haul. “Trump’s the only person that pre-spun his exit — it’s rather remarkable,” Mr. Stevens said.
He pointed to one of the issues that has nagged the Trump candidacy from the outset — how much he is willing to spend on the race, particularly if his polling numbers start to sag. “I think we would all say this is a more serious endeavor if he was spending $2 million a week out of his own pocket, and I think it’s another sign that he’s not in this to win,” Mr. Stevens said.
According to the last campaign finance filing, Mr. Trump had so far spent $2 million of his own money on his self-financed bid for office. That is a fraction of what other major campaigns have spent, and most of it has been spent reimbursing himself for the cost of his plane and office space in Trump Tower. When financial disclosure reports are made public next week, it is unlikely he will be shown to have invested much more.
What has helped keep Mr. Trump’s candidacy strong has been the intense news media coverage of his bid — that and the universal name recognition he enjoyed heading into the race and a fractured nominating field, with 15 candidates. Most candidates would give anything for the free airtime Mr. Trump gets — and lower-polling hopefuls like Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky have publicly complained about it.
Still, Mr. Trump has also been showing signs recently of becoming a better candidate on the trail — dropping local references into his speeches and lingering to shake hands. But such discipline did not extend to his second debate performance, which was almost universally described as lackluster.
Since then, Mr. Trump and his aides have spoken repeatedly about his next act. They have made a handful of hires in some of the March primary states, pointing to that as evidence that he will keep running (his state director in Texas, Corbin Casteel, was revealed to have called Mr. Trump “a joke” this year).
Mr. Trump’s advisers say that they had been prepared to spend $20 million on ads by now but that they did not have to because of all the free news media coverage — and they hint that amount would be merely a down payment on what he will spend in the future.
His allies insist he is adapting to the race, and they point out that, after criticism that Mr. Trump was treading lightly on policy matters, his recent speeches have been more focused on issues than simply rhetoric.
“Mr. Trump has evolved to the point where he understands that a grass-roots strategy must be supplemented with paid advertising to be able to combat the negative ads that will run against him — and he is prepared or preparing to spend what it takes to make sure his message gets to the voters,” said Corey Lewandowski, his campaign manager.
The campaign has hired a Florida public relations firm to make ads, Mr. Lewandowski said. But according to people tracking media spending, the Trump campaign has yet to reserve airtime anywhere.
A failure to invest in television commercials as poll numbers dwindle recalls another businessman who ran for president, Ross Perot. His campaign manager in 1992, Edward J. Rollins, resigned after the candidate drew intense negative news media attention and Mr. Perot refused his advice to air ads hitting back. Mr. Perot relented only in October, and instead of running conventional commercials, he ran 30-minute infomercials in which he made his case for being elected with charts.
While leading national Republicans may believe Mr. Trump will look for a face-saving way out at some point, that has not affected the views of people in some of the early voting states.
In Iowa, people “think he’s in for the duration,” said Doug Gross, a Republican strategist. But, he added, “I think he’s peaked.”
A reader writes, “Everyone says Donald Trump can’t win. Exactly why not?”
David Leonhardt, editor for The Upshot, considers the question: 
Can Donald Trump win the Republican nomination? Sure, it’s within the realm of plausibility; he’s now been leading the polls for months, after all. But it seems highly unlikely because it would violate just about every historical pattern of presidential races.
No modern candidate has received a major-party nomination — and perhaps no candidate in American history — while being opposed by the party’s elites: donors, media figures, politicians and others.
Elite support matters because they have the ability to shape public opinion through endorsements, public criticism and other means. Many voters don’t follow campaigns very closely. They don’t dig through position papers or watch hours upon hours of debates. They’re influenced by what they hear.
In every recent Republican presidential campaign, a couple of contenders — often with resumes atypical of a serious candidate — have shot to the top of the early polls, only to fade as they face scrutiny and criticism. What’s fascinating about Mr. Trump is that he has, if anything, endured harsher criticism, and yet he has also remained atop the polls for longer.
Perhaps Republican primary voters have grown so fed up with the country and their party that they’re willing to dismiss the collective opinion of Republican elites (which now seems to favor Marco Rubio or Jeb Bush). But it really would be unprecedented for the party to nominate someone like Mr. Trump, Ben Carson or Carly Fiorina.

Ask The Times, a regular Times Insider feature, draws on Times staffers’ expertise to answer questions about current events, life at the paper, science, sports, culture and whatever else is making headlines. Send your questions to timesinsider@nytimes.com. 
Read more Ask The Times:
Where Do Butterflies Go When It Rains?

You’re currently stumping for Hillary Clinton in Iowa: the first openly gay senator campaigning in the middle of the American heartland for the woman who could be the first female president. Do you think that the Midwest sometimes moves more quickly than the rest of the country on progressive issues? Absolutely. Wisconsin was the first state to enact a gay civil rights law, in 1982, offering protections against discrimination in employment, public accommodations and education. It was signed into law by a Republican governor, believe it or not.
Why do you think the heartland has this political tradition? We honor a hard week’s work, you know, and that’s how you’ll be judged.
You have said there’s less ego when female lawmakers get together than in mixed company. Is that simply because they’re women? Or is it because of the kind of women who wind up in Congress? A little of both. When I think of the personal narratives of my colleagues, many of them came to public life to fix something that was of great concern to them personally, or to their immediate family or community. For them, it wasn’t about ego to begin with.
Much of the modern history of the L.G.B.T. civil rights movement has coincided with your time in Congress. Have you seen any legislators change their minds on gay rights issues? In the House, I did a lot of sitting down with Republicans to talk about these bills. Often there was a real sort of intimacy in those conversations. People talked about gay brothers, or a child who was gay, lesbian or transgender. I can’t tell you how many of those stories I accumulated. I think I moved a number of my colleagues, and I think it at least caused a lot of internal conflict for those I didn’t move.
Doing research on you, I couldn’t find much in the way of personal anecdotes or color. By contrast, we know that Scott Walker likes hot ham and Harleys. Is there anything about you that might be a fun piece of trivia? I couldn’t find anything. Even my hobbies are boring. I sew. I like to cook when I’m back in Wisconsin. In D.C., I just microwave things because there’s no time.
Do you have a favorite casserole, or “hot dish,” as we would call it in Minnesota? Well, that’s where I kind of digress from the typical Midwestern tradition.
You mean you eat food that’s good? Yes. I cook food that’s good. I like to experiment with a lot of things: Indian dishes, some Thai dishes, some Chinese dishes.
Your career has been described as a gentle upward slope. Al Franken called you ‘‘the most serene member’’ of Congress — though I recognize that that is a low bar. What really gets your blood boiling? I guess impediments and obstacles to progress. These manufactured crises — fiscal cliffs, the debt ceiling, all of the threatened government shutdowns — make me so frustrated. If we can’t do the basic things, how are we going to do the more complex things?
You’re one of nine lawmakers in Congress who declined to offer a religious affiliation. Do you consider yourself a spiritual person? I do. They didn’t let me put the phrase ‘‘It’s complicated,’’ as Facebook might have.
Barney Frank didn’t come out as atheist until 26 years after he came out as gay. I’m not an atheist. So it would be hard to come out as one.
You have adopted closing the carried-interest loophole — which allows hedge-fund managers to be taxed at the lower capital-gains rate for what is essentially income — as a signature cause, which puts you on the same side of the issue as Donald Trump. And the pope, right?
What other issues would you work on with President Trump? Oh, I may have to get back to you about that.
Montreal — IT is easy to tut-tut the overindulgences of the American right. For Canadians, it is practically a birthright. None of our politicians, many of us would like to believe, would dare invoke the Trumpian galaxy of Mexican rapists, or ponder publicly, as the Republican candidate Ben Carson did, that Europe’s Jews would have fared better against Hitler if only the Third Reich hadn’t instituted gun control.
Yet over the last several weeks of an increasingly caustic election campaign, Prime Minister Stephen Harper and Canada’s ruling Conservative Party have managed to erase much of our trademark smugness.
Faced with a stalling economy and a corresponding dip in the polls, Mr. Harper had a stroke of luck. The Federal Court of Appeal dismissed his government’s ban on the niqab — the face veil worn as part of the hijab by a small minority of Muslim women — from Canadian citizenship ceremonies.
Rather than accept the ruling, the Conservative government proclaimed its intention to appeal to the Supreme Court, and then took the issue to the hustings. During a recent campaign debate, Mr. Harper declared that he “will never tell my young daughter that a woman should cover her face because she is a woman” — as though his political opponents would do just that, given the chance.
Effectively, Mr. Harper hopes to win his fourth term on Oct. 19 in part by demonizing those few who wear the niqab — and much of Canada’s Muslim population by extension. In one particularly pungent mailing to voters, the Conservative Party suggested that the election of one of Mr. Harper’s opponents would turn the country into a dystopia of high taxes, high unemployment and citizenship ceremonies clogged with covered Muslim faces pledging allegiance to the queen.
The truth is decidedly more banal. Since 2011, all of two women out of 700,000 new citizens have refused to doff their niqab during the ceremony, according to a Radio-Canada report. And those who do wear the niqab must remove it before the ceremony for identification purposes. But nuance and perspective only impede the Conservative narrative.
The campaign has since announced its intention to start a police tip line for “barbaric cultural practices,” so that Canadians can report such things as forced marriages and female genital mutilation. Mr. Harper himself mused that he would seek to forbid federal public servants to wear the niqab.
In this fear-mongering, many see the hand of Lynton Crosby, the Australian political operative who had been advising the Conservatives, according to a campaign spokesman. A veteran of winning campaigns for the former Australian prime minister John Howard and Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, Mr. Crosby is known for his use of divisive social issues, if only to spur political apoplexy from political opponents and populist outrage from the masses.
If Mr. Crosby was indeed involved, then his work is done. Both Thomas Mulcair, the New Democratic Party leader, and Justin Trudeau, the Liberal Party leader, have called out Mr. Harper for stoking the fears of the voting public. This very voting public, a government poll suggested, is staunchly against the wearing of the niqab, a sentiment that the prime minister has used as a cudgel whenever he speaks about the issue. (A national poll from The Globe and Mail this week had the niqab well down the list of voter concerns.)
But the Conservative Party’s scapegoating of Canadian Muslims dates from well before this campaign. The government first banned the niqab from citizenship ceremonies in 2011, but its directive was successfully challenged by Zunera Ishaq, a former high-school teacher from Pakistan.
More recently, government officials said Syrian refugees would be prioritized, with first dibs given to the country’s religious (read: Christian) minority. Mr. Harper’s own office was found to have personally intervened in the processing of Syrian refugees. Coincidentally or not, Canada has admitted only about 10 percent of the 10,000 the government had promised it would accept.
The foot-dragging is a marked deviation from Canada’s history of accepting refugees fleeing strife. In 1979, the Progressive Conservative government of the time began admitting some additional 50,000 Vietnamese refugees. The comparatively modest number of accepted Syrian refugees has riled some within the Canadian military, with which the Conservative brand (the “Progressive” was lopped off in 2003) is closely associated.
“We’ve got to stop being afraid of our own shadow,” said Rick Hillier, a beloved retired Canadian general who says the country could easily accept 50,000 Syrian refugees by the end of the year.
Though Mr. Harper’s anti-niqab gambit had some initial success, there are indications it might not ultimately be a winning strategy. The latest poll numbers have the Liberals ahead of the Conservatives for the first time in this campaign. The separatist Parti Québécois tried similar fear-stoking in last year’s Quebec election, but the tactic failed miserably.
And Zunera Ishaq recently recited Canada’s Oath of Citizenship from behind those few square inches of face-covering cloth. This is what progress sounds like in a campaign of fear.
Three candidates who have never held political office — Donald Trump, Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina — have combined to amass a majority of support in G.O.P. primary polls. Not coincidentally, a majority of potential Republican voters say they would prefer a president without experience in Washington.
These patterns have made it seem as if Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson and Mrs. Fiorina are all part of the same broad phenomenon: Republicans, fed up with the state of the country and their party, have turned against the establishment. As a result, outsiders appear to be well positioned to win a majority of voters in 2016 — a significant change from recent presidential cycles, when establishment Republican candidates prevailed.
There may well be some truth to this. We won’t know for sure until the voting gets closer and people’s preferences start to settle in. But it does seem clear, even now, that the outsider boomlet, which has been talked up by many election observers, isn’t quite what it appears at first glance.
Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson and Mrs. Fiorina are actually very different candidates who seem to have very different kinds of early supporters. Understanding those differences is crucial to understanding how each one might, or might not, have staying power — and where their supporters would probably go if they faded.
No, Mrs. Fiorina hasn’t won elected office before, but she is not an anti-establishment figure. She’s a businesswoman whose views fit within the mainstream of the party.
She is similar in many ways to the party’s last nominee, Mitt Romney, even down to the fact that both lost Senate races in heavily blue states. The important exception is that he also won one election before running for president (for Massachusetts governor). Every recent national survey has shown her faring best among affluent and well-educated Republicans. There was even a Fox poll that showed her earning no support among respondents making less than $50,000.
Mrs. Fiorina has done well because she has been highly effective in performing as a traditional presidential candidate in highly publicized debates. It’s a stretch to argue that she would be doing even better if she were more of an outsider, given that her strength has been her ability to present herself as a plausible president on the national stage. On the contrary, if she had won her California Senate race in 2010, one wonders whether she might now be a front-runner to win the nomination.
If she winds up fading in the polls — and indeed, she has already lost ground since the last debate — it’s quite possible that many of her supporters will drift toward an establishment candidate like Jeb Bush, Marco Rubio or even John Kasich.
Mr. Carson does look more like a traditional outsider, but of a kind that has become familiar in Republican nomination contests. He looks a lot like a factional candidate of the religious right. He has strong support from evangelical Christians, which is something we’ve seen before, from Pat Robertson, Rick Santorum, Mike Huckabee and even Gary Bauer in recent decades. He fares well in Iowa, but not as well in New Hampshire.
Some of these candidates were elected officials, some were not. Their success didn’t presage a broader “outsider” movement — and wasn’t large enough to prevent an establishment candidate from winning the nomination.
Mr. Trump does look a lot like a real outsider candidate — and his surprising continued strength is obviously the biggest sign of a larger anti-establishment sentiment that could mark 2016 as different from previous cycles.
On the other hand, he is such a distinctive candidate — a genuine celebrity with a larger-than-life personality and the ability to draw tremendous media attention — that it’s not at all obvious that his support augurs anything more than support for Mr. Trump himself. His supporters are demographically and politically diverse, making it harder to infer what’s driving his support.
For anyone trying to figure out whether Republicans have entered a new pro-outsider phase, the roughly 25 percent who now say they’re supporting Mr. Trump will be more important to watch than the Fiorina and Carson supporters.
And what about the polling that suggests a majority of Republicans might prefer a candidate who isn’t a Washington politician?
Given widespread dissatisfaction with the government and the country’s direction, the general finding is not very surprising. But voters don’t always translate a desire for change into support for highly unorthodox candidates. Significant numbers of Republicans express doubts about whether any of the three candidates has the experience to be a good president, according to a recent CBS News survey. A Quinnipiac poll showed that respondents were split on whether Mr. Trump had the right experience, even though 72 percent wanted an outsider.
As recently as a few months ago, people who were surveyed weren’t choosing outsiders — either in the horse race polls or in the generic questions. Maybe Republicans have gone through a profound, rapid shift in how they feel about whether their candidates have experience. But perhaps it’s more likely that they have been impressed by the performances of Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson or Mrs. Fiorina and are rationalizing their support by citing a desire for an outsider. That’s a common pattern, in which candidate preference drives the answers to issue questions rather than — as much analysis assumes — the other way around.
Ultimately, there will be no way to know whether the fundamental dynamics of Republican presidential politics have changed until voters cast ballots. That kind of shift is certainly possible. But it’s also easy to be fooled by early polls or even early primaries. Herman Cain was leading at this time four years ago. Pat Buchanan won New Hampshire in 1996, and didn’t win a primary again. People often say that “this time is different,” until it isn’t. At the very least, the early polling success of Mrs. Fiorina, Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson is not significant enough to prove that candidates with electoral experience are at a disadvantage in this election.
DENVER — Despite its deep opposition to same-sex marriage, the Mormon Church is setting itself apart from religious conservatives who rallied behind a Kentucky county clerk, Kim Davis, who cited her religious beliefs as justification for refusing to grant marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
In a speech this week about the boundaries between church and state, Dallin Oaks, a high-ranking apostle in the church, said that public officials like Ms. Davis, the clerk in Rowan County, Ky., had a duty to follow the law, despite their religious convictions.
“Office holders remain free to draw upon their personal beliefs and motivations and advocate their positions in the public square,” Elder Oaks said. “But when acting as public officials, they are not free to apply personal convictions, religious or other, in place of the defined responsibilities of their public offices. All government officers should exercise their civil authority according to the principles and within the limits of civil government.”
Referring to Ms. Davis without naming her, Elder Oaks said: “A county clerk’s recent invoking of religious reasons to justify refusal by her office and staff to issue marriage licenses to same-gender couples violates this principle.”
Jonathan Rauch, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, called the speech a “pretty big deal” that embraced compromise over conflict. The church has not changed its opposition to same-sex marriage, he noted, but it has also rejected the all-out opposition embodied by Ms. Davis, as well as calls from some conservative groups for public officials to reject the Supreme Court’s marriage ruling.
“They’re not going down that road,” Mr. Rauch said. Paraphrasing the church’s view, he added that the Mormons were saying: “Count us out — we will not have any part of massive resistance. We’re going to go through the channels of political dialogue and compromise.”
Mathew Staver, a lawyer for Ms. Davis, criticized Elder Oaks’s remarks, saying the elder was essentially advocating a view that granted no religious protections to those in public office.
“It’s misinformed both about the case of Kim Davis and is shortsighted with respect to religious freedom and the right of conscience,” Mr. Staver said. “The church is going to face these kinds of issues.”
The Mormon Church once stood at the forefront of the fight against same-sex marriage with its support of a 2008 California ballot measure, known as Proposition 8, that limited marriage to a man and a woman. But that advocacy brought a backlash from outside the church as well as from its own members, and since then, the church has modulated its tone and positions on some gay rights issues.
This year, Mormon leaders supported a law passed by Utah’s Republican-dominated government that outlawed housing and employment discrimination against gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people. Called the “Utah compromise,” it exempted religious groups that object to homosexuality.
The Mormon Church itself joined other religious groups in filing briefs with the Supreme Court opposing same-sex marriage. After the court’s decision in June, the Mormon Church said it would not perform same-sex marriages. The changes in the law, it said, “do not, indeed cannot, change the moral law that God has established.”
But in his speech on Tuesday, to an audience of legal and clergy officials in Sacramento, Elder Oaks said that religious freedom should not be asserted “to override every law and government action that could possibly be interpreted to infringe on institutional or personal religious freedom.”
Elder Oaks is a former Utah Supreme Court justice who also worked as a United States Supreme Court clerk for Chief Justice Earl Warren. In January, he was among the Mormon leaders who appeared at a rare news conference at which they announced the church’s willingness to support the antidiscrimination legislation.
“Even where they have challenged laws or practices on constitutional grounds, once those laws or practices have been sustained by the highest available authority, believers should acknowledge their validity and submit to them,” Elder Oaks said.
Erika Munson of Mormons Building Bridges, which tries to improve relations between the church and gay people, said that court rulings striking down same-sex marriage bans had unsettled some Mormons in Utah. A federal judge’s ruling in December 2013 legalizing same-sex marriage across the state was the first jolt, and the Supreme Court decision in June was the last.
“I think Mormons in particular haven’t quite known what to do with the new reality of legal gay marriage,” Ms. Munson said. “We can now have much more open conversations about how we live our Mormon-ness. We have to learn to live with our neighbors. It’s done. It’s a done deal.”
A beleaguered Jeb Bush slashed his campaign spending. Donald J. Trump lost his lead in Iowa. And a surging Ben Carson galvanized his support among social conservatives.
With Hillary Rodham Clinton emerging as the unrivaled leader in the Democratic contest, the unruly Republican presidential field suddenly seemed to lack a center of political gravity on Friday, leaving party strategists and voters to fear a long nomination fight that could end with a damaged standard-bearer facing a more unified left.
Mr. Bush cut salaries, fired consultants and laid off or reassigned many campaign workers. It was the latest sign that contenders vying for support from moderates and the party’s establishment are all but running on fumes — exhausting their cash, or the patience of their supporters, but barely moving in the polls.
Mr. Trump, for months a leading candidate, has now fallen behind in Iowa to Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, raising questions about how aggressively he will act to reverse his sagging poll numbers. And Mr. Carson, whose fund-raising has roughly kept pace with his climb in the polls, is moving to run television commercials in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, positioning himself to influence the outcomes in those states and others if he manages to continue locking down evangelical Christian voters.
Yet amid the tumult on the right, the contours of the state-by-state fight for the Republican nomination have also become more apparent.
In Iowa, where Republicans have crowned Christian conservatives in the last two caucuses, the most intense competition is for the support of hard-line Republicans among Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Whoever emerges as the victor among these voters, many of whom dislike traditional politicians, will be strongly positioned to break out as the favored candidate among the same bloc of conservatives in later states.
And with Mr. Bush scaling back and focusing more intensely on the New Hampshire primary, he has helped ensure its role as a decisive, perhaps do-or-die test for his candidacy and those of other center-right hopefuls like Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio.
More immediately, the Republicans’ third debate, on Wednesday night, now looms as a potentially decisive moment for several candidates — above all Mr. Bush, whose performances have been lackluster so far, and whose staid, sober manner is proving an ill fit with voter discontent with long-serving elected officials.
Wobbliness in the earlier debates helped drive former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin from the Republican race as supporters lost faith and the candidates failed to redirect staff and resources quickly enough to recover, as Mr. Bush is trying to do now.
Mr. Bush has more resources, including support from a “super PAC” with nearly $100 million on hand, but he has been spending heavily and needs a strong showing to reassure his donors and give clearer reasons for voters to support him.
“The Republican camp is in total disarray,” said Edward J. Rollins, a veteran Republican strategist, who lamented the prospect of several more sprawling debates that fail to narrow the field, saying that Mr. Trump’s “reality show antics” would get in the way of the winnowing that needs to occur, and the sooner the better. “A long, dragged-out battle on our side only makes it more difficult to get ready for Hillary,” he said.
In Miami, where Mr. Bush’s campaign is based, aides were on edge Friday. Many were waiting to hear whether they would receive pay cuts, be sent to an early state or laid off entirely. The mood was brighter among those already in early states, who have been seeking more of Mr. Bush’s time and now will apparently get it. According to an internal memo, first reported Friday by Bloomberg News, Mr. Bush plans to reduce payroll costs by 40 percent this week and cut travel spending by 20 percent.
Mr. Bush dismissed many of his fund-raising consultants, retaining only a handful from large states.
Some Bush strategists grumbled about what they described as an excessively large infrastructure at the headquarters. One department that will be particularly thinned out, advisers said, is the group of video producers and editors, called “Jeb TV,” that was assembled for what had been a robust digital effort.
“We will be working with staff today and going through each person’s situation, but expect sizable changes,” Danny Diaz, Mr. Bush’s campaign manager, said by email.
Mr. Bush, campaigning Friday in Virginia Beach, insisted that the shake-up was not ominous.
“This means lean and mean, and it means that I have the ability to adapt,” he said, pointing to Mr. Trump’s unexpected rise. “Every dollar we can save in overhead is a dollar that goes on television, goes on radio, goes on media, goes on voter outreach.”
While Mr. Bush is in poor shape now in Iowa, which holds the first-in-the-nation nominating contest on Feb. 1, the dynamics of the race there are hardly settled. Mr. Trump led polls of Iowa Republicans for 78 days, but a remarkable shift occurred on Thursday and Friday as Mr. Carson surged ahead in back-to-back polls, largely by consolidating the support of Christian conservatives.
Mr. Trump’s slide undercuts a key part of his sales pitch on the campaign trail: That opinion polls prove he is the most popular and formidable Republican in the presidential race.
“Do we love these polls?” Mr. Trump asked a crowd at a rally on Wednesday in Burlington, Iowa. “Somebody said, ‘You love polls.’ I said that’s only because I’ve been winning every single one of them. Right? Right? Every single poll.” He added that, “very importantly,” he was “winning big” in Iowa.
At a rally Friday night at the Trump National Doral Miami resort in Doral, Fla., Mr. Trump bragged about his poll numbers in a variety of states.
He acknowledged “bad news” in the form of the new Iowa polls, but described himself as “a great Christian,” blamed the news media for blowing the polls out of proportion and asserted that the pollsters behind those surveys “do not like me.”
“Believe me, I’m not dropping out of anything,” Mr. Trump said. “I love Iowa, and I honestly think those polls are wrong.”
Sounding like a newscaster, he also jabbed Mr. Carson. “We have a breaking story: Donald Trump has fallen to second place behind Ben Carson,” Mr. Trump said. “We informed Ben, but he was sleeping.” He derided Mr. Carson as “super low energy.”
Whether Mr. Trump will now start spending heavily from his personal fortune on his campaign, as he has said he would do, remains unclear: He has donated roughly $1.9 million of his own money, and he has yet to spend on television. Weeks ago, his advisers said Mr. Trump had hired a media firm in Florida that normally does not work for political clients, boasting proudly of his unconventional thinking. But they have refused to identify the firm, and Mr. Trump has continued to interview additional media consultants.
Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, was emphatic that the candidate would not retreat from Iowa.
“We’re going to compete every place, all the time, forever,” Mr. Lewandowski said.
But when asked if Mr. Trump had settled on a contingency plan if his numbers in Iowa continue to erode, Mr. Lewandowski said, “It’s not that he hasn’t decided, it’s that he hasn’t shared this information.”
Mr. Carson has slowly but steadily emerged as a soft-spoken alternative to the fiery Mr. Trump among Republicans fed up with politicians and craving an outsider. A focus group of Republicans in Indianapolis this week, conducted for the nonpartisan Annenberg Public Policy Center, called Mr. Trump “self-serving” and “disturbing.” In contrast, Mr. Carson was called “wise” and “a gentleman.”
“It’s like a moth to the flame,” said the pollster Peter D. Hart, who conducted the focus group, of Mr. Trump’s supporters. “They’re drawn there, but all of a sudden, as they look closer, they say: ‘No, no, no. I’m backing away.’ ”
In New Hampshire, meanwhile, Mr. Bush is drawing inspiration from another candidate who also struggled with money troubles — Senator John McCain of Arizona. Several times in recent weeks, Mr. Bush has recalled an encounter with Mr. McCain at the Atlanta airport during the 2008 presidential primary campaign.
“He’s carrying his bag, he has no aide, he’s running for president, he has no staff,” Mr. Bush said in New Hampshire last month. “The campaign was basically over. Everybody said it. All the pundits said, ‘It’s over; why waste your time?’ ”
But Mr. McCain persisted, Mr. Bush said, implicitly making an analogy-cum-prediction for his own predicament.
“He won New Hampshire, he won Florida, he won the nomination, and he should have been president,” Mr. Bush said.
Here are the week’s top stories.
1. Has intense scrutiny of the police over the last year cowed officers and allowed crime to spike? The F.B.I. director, James Comey, embraced that disputed theory, infuriating some Justice Department officials focused on raising accountability within law enforcement. Meanwhile, a Times analysis of police records in North Carolina and six other states shows wide racial disparities in traffic stops and arrests.
_______
2. Mexico picked up the pieces after a sudden hurricane, Patricia, roared into its west coast with winds of 165 miles per hour and fearsome billing as the Western Hemisphere’s strongest storm ever. Good news: Winds dropped rapidly, little serious damage was reported and Patricia shrank back into a mere tropical depression.
_______
3. In the presidential race, the Democratic field narrowed as Jim Webb and Lincoln Chafee dropped out and Joe Biden announced he would definitely not run. Hillary Rodham Clinton withstood a marathon day before the House Benghazi panel and exchanged battling speeches with Bernie Sanders at Saturday night’s Jefferson-Jackson dinner in Iowa. Monday is her 68th birthday.
_______
4. The Republican side was also in motion, ahead of Wednesday’s third debate. The betting rose on Marco Rubio, above, as Jeb Bush slashed campaign spending. And support from conservative Christians helped push Ben Carson ahead of Donald Trump in Iowa polls — which Mr. Trump’s Twitter account mocked with an ill-advised retweet of a disparaging joke: “Too much #Monsanto in the #corn creates issues in the brain?”
_______
5. The auto industry suffered casualties, too. Tesla’s stock dropped after Consumer Reports ceased recommending its Model S luxury electric car because of owner complaints. Management failures became clearer at Volkswagen, now down by a third of its value due to an emissions scandal. U.S. regulators said more Takata airbag problems could further widen the country’s largest recall. On the upside, Ferrari stock (RACE on the ticker) closed its debut week at $56.38, giving the company a market value of nearly $11 billion.
_______
6. A surge in stock price after Amazon’s strong earnings report pushed Jeff Bezos, above left, ahead of the Koch brothers and into third place on the list of richest Americans, behind Bill Gates and Warren Buffett. The big money maker was AWS, Amazon’s cloud business, which has overwhelmed smaller competitors like Hewlett-Packard.
_______
7. Yahoo and the N.F.L. are experimenting together. Yahoo’s free global stream of the Buffalo Bills-Jacksonville Jaguars game from London sold out of ad space, and the Internet service’s base of a billion users allows the N.F.L. to gauge American football’s international appeal.
_______
8. The World Series, which begins Tuesday, will end a three-decade drought no matter who wins. The New York Mets last won in 1986, the Kansas City Royals in 1985.
_______
9. Russia maneuvered more aggressively in the Syrian conflict, summoning President Bashar al-Assad to Moscow to discuss a political solution and holding high-level meetings with the U.S. and other powers in Vienna, with more sent for the coming week. They have a lot to overcome, including divisions over how long Mr. Assad should stay in place.
_______
10. China secured a significant stake in Britain’s nuclear industry during President Xi Jinping’s state visit to London. Prime Minister David Cameron said, “The stronger the relationship between our countries, the more we’ll be able to have a serious dialogue” on areas of disagreement, like human rights. But some critics question whether economic interdependence might instead shield China from any such pressure.
_______
11. House Republicans appeared to be moving forward to elect Paul Ryan as speaker on Thursday. Mr. Ryan agreed to stand for the position, but made clear he would not be fundraising for the party constantly. “I cannot and I will not give up my family time,” he said.
_______
12. Most betting says the Federal Reserve won’t announce an increase to interest rates after its meetings end Wednesday. But keep an eye on the stock market on Tuesday — the Nasdaq could reach a record if Apple earnings are strong.
13. Watch: Canada is getting to know its new Camelot-worthy prime minister, Justin Trudeau. Great hair, yeah, but he’s also got a few extra moves. This is Mr. Trudeau at an event organized by the India-Canada Association of Montreal just a couple of years ago.
Have a great week.
Video produced by Ainara Tiefenthäler.
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p.m. Eastern.
Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
The American television punditocracy — the pollsters, political consultants and other talking heads who become as ubiquitous as air every election cycle — can be incestuous and herdlike. Its members spend a lot of time in New York and Washington greenrooms, preparing their assessments about “real Americans,” whom some pundits have even encountered, maybe at a highway rest stop.
To watch their punditry in recent months has been to observe a tortured passage in comprehending the presidential candidacy of Donald J. Trump.
First they were fascinated. Then they were in disbelief, explaining that polls weren’t always accurate. Then they were merely skeptical: The consensus was that it would be hard for him to win, but a few people started hedging their bets and comparing him to Ronald Reagan. Now the tone has shifted again, to acceptance: More and more, it is said that he may become the Republican nominee.
Mr. Trump is an entertainer, bringing a rawness and wildness to the presidential race that no other candidate can come close to matching. His campaign is a cult of personality, and has been reported as such.
And yet, win or lose, Mr. Trump could have a lasting effect on American politics, thanks to an ad hoc ideology and electoral coalition, animated by the anxieties of a post-Cold War, globalized world.
That world has been disorienting for many middle- and working-class Americans. Work vanishes to faraway lands, and they are made to train their foreign replacements. A new fluidity in sexual, gender and cultural norms upsets traditional understanding. White Americans face the prospect of losing their majority status. The ultrarich seize on the opportunities of the new order and corner a growing proportion of the national income. Young voters hear they will be the first generation of Americans to fare worse than their parents.
The atmosphere of change and anxiety provides a ripe opportunity for politicians. But Republican orthodoxy has limited the exploitation of working-class fears. The party mainstream is firmly in favor of free trade, low marginal-tax rates at the high end and legal immigration.
Mr. Trump has dispensed with that orthodoxy. Reflecting the populist drift of the far right of the Republican Party, he has deftly played into the central fears of many voters: that their job security, cultural identity and general assumptions (and those of their children) are under assault from a variety of forces at home and abroad. And while he contends that sometimes the problem is too much government, he has been known to break from traditional Republicans and say the problem is too little government.
His immigration plan, to build a wall on the border and deport undocumented immigrants, may be unfeasible and, as some argue, inhumane. His pledge to impose tariffs on foreign countries to keep factories in America may be a hard sell in Congress. His plan to raise taxes on hedge-fund managers who stash wealth in the Caribbean may be a nonstarter. What these impulses have in common, however, is a belief that in the 21st century, American freedoms are threatened not only by overbearing government, as his Republican colleagues tend to emphasize, but also by a more complex and diffuse set of forces.
In the face of Republican near-consensus on the free market, Mr. Trump says, in his own way, that government can play a unique role in writing the rules of the marketplace and restraining the market when it fails people.
Such ideas have grown unfashionable in our market-venerating era. A cool new utilitarianism has gained currency: If a million people lose $50,000-a-year jobs through trade, but 100 million save $501 a year by buying cheaper Chinese stuff — the surplus of which they spend on other things, in that way generating more jobs — the market consensus tells us we are better off.
But pain is not transferable. One hundred savers at Walmart and one laid-off worker may cancel themselves out on a balance sheet, but in politics they are additive. Mr. Trump has, in his own way, understood that. Win or lose, that understanding could endure.
The voters, especially on the Republican side, seem to be despising experience this year and are looking for outsiders. Hence we have the rise of Donald Trump and Ben Carson. People like me keep predicting that these implausibles will collapse, but so far, as someone tweeted, they keep collapsing upward.
But imagine if we had a sensible Trump in the race. Suppose there was some former general or business leader with impeccable outsider status but also a steady temperament, deep knowledge and good sense.
What would that person sound like? Maybe something like this:
Ladies and gentlemen, I’m no politician. I’m just a boring guy who knows how to run things. But I’ve been paying close attention and it seems to me that of all the problems that face the nation, two stand out. The first is that we have a polarized, dysfunctional, semi-corrupt political culture that prevents us from getting anything done. To reverse that gridlock we’ve got to find some policy area where there’s a basis for bipartisan action.
The second big problem is that things are going badly for those in the lower half of the income distribution. People with less education are seeing their wages fall, their men drop out of the labor force, their marriage rates plummet and their social networks dissolve.
The first piece of good news is that conservative and progressive writers see this reality similarly, which is a rare thing these days. The second piece of good news is that we have new research that suggests fresh ways to address this problem, ways that may appeal to both Democrats and Republicans.
The studies I’m talking about were done at Harvard by Raj Chetty, Nathaniel Hendren and Lawrence Katz. They looked at the results of a Clinton-era program called Moving to Opportunity, which took poor families and moved them to middle-class neighborhoods. At first the results were disappointing. The families who moved didn’t see their earnings rise. Their kids didn’t do much better in school.
But as years went by and newer data accumulated, different and more promising results came in. Children who were raised in better environments had remarkable earnings gains. The girls raised in the better neighborhoods were more likely to marry and raise their own children in two-parent homes.
The first implication of this research is that neighborhood matters a lot. When we think about ways to improve the lot of the working class, it’s insufficient to just help individuals and families. We have to improve entire neighborhoods.
Second, the research reminds us that to improve conditions for the working class it’s necessary to both create jobs and improve culture. Every time conservatives say culture plays a large role in limiting mobility, progressives accuse them of blaming the victim.
But this research shows the importance of environment. The younger the children were when they moved to these middle-class environments, the more their outcomes improved. It’s likely they benefited from being in environments with different norms, with more information about how to thrive, with few traumatic events down the block.
I know the professional politicians are going to want to continue their wars, but I see an opportunity: We launch a series of initiatives to create environments of opportunity in middle-, working- and lower-class neighborhoods.
This will mean doing some things Republicans like. We’ve got to devolve a lot of power from Washington back to local communities. These neighborhoods can’t thrive if they are not responsible for themselves. Then we’ve got to expand charter schools. The best charter schools radiate diverse but strong cultures of achievement. Locally administered social entrepreneurship funds could help churches and other groups expand their influence.
This will mean doing some things Democrats like. We’ve got to reform and expand early childhood education programs, complete with wraparound programs for parents. They would turn into community hubs. Infrastructure programs could increase employment.
Basically we’ve got to get socialist. No, I don’t mean the way Bernie Sanders is a socialist. He’s a statist, not a socialist. I mean we have to put the quality of the social fabric at the center of our politics. And we’ve got to get personalist: to treat people as full human beings, not just economic units you fix by writing checks.
Then we’ve got to get integrationist, to integrate different races and classes through national service and school and relocation vouchers. And finally, we have to get a little moralistic. There are certain patterns of behavior, like marrying before you have kids and sticking around to parent the kids you conceive, that contribute to better communities.
Look, I don’t know if I’m red or blue. If you want a true outsider, don’t just pick someone outside the political system. Pick someone outside the rigid partisan mentalities that are the real problem here.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning. 
Here’s what you need to know:
• Washington’s breakthrough.
Republican congressional leaders and President Obama put aside five years of discord overnight, as they reached a tentative deal on a two-year budget plan.
The budget agreement would modestly increase spending, cut some social programs and raise the federal borrowing limit, averting a government debt default in November. It faces a House vote on Wednesday and then a Senate vote.
• U.S. challenges China on disputed islands.
China today accused the U.S. of “deliberate provocation” by sending a Navy destroyer into waters claimed by Beijing and summoned the U.S. ambassador to the Foreign Ministry.
Most of the world does not recognize China’s territorial claim on the artificial Spratly Island chain in the South China Sea.
• Search for survivors in South Asia.
What we don’t know about the aftermath of Monday’s powerful earthquake that struck Afghanistan near its border with Pakistan may be more frightening than what we do know.
Rescuers are struggling to reach remote areas affected by the magnitude-7.5 quake. So far, the number of deaths in Pakistan and Afghanistan exceeds 300.
• Poll shows Carson ahead nationally.
Ben Carson has a narrow lead in the Republican presidential campaign, dislodging Donald J. Trump from the top spot, according to a New York Times/CBS News survey released today.
Mr. Carson is the choice of 26 percent of Republican primary voters, the poll found, while Mr. Trump has 22 percent. The margin of error is plus or minus six percentage points.
• White House itinerary.
Mr. Obama travels to Chicago today to talk at a conference of police chiefs about overhauling sentencing laws.
Congress is considering legislation — its first major criminal justice overhaul in a decade — to cut certain mandatory minimum prison sentences to address federal prison overcrowding.
• Student attacked by officer.
The authorities in South Carolina are investigating what happened on two videos that show a white police officer in a Columbia classroom grabbing a black student by the neck, flipping her backward as she sat at her desk, then dragging and throwing her across the floor.
• A victory for Cuba.
The annual resolution criticizing the U.S. economic embargo against Cuba is expected to pass overwhelmingly, as usual, by the United Nations today.
The U.S. is likely to vote against it, despite having restored diplomatic ties with Havana. A U.S. official says the text does not reflect their new relationship.
• Questions about cryotherapy’s safety. 
The death of a 24-year-old Nevada woman at a center that uses extreme cold for therapy is prompting scrutiny of cryotherapy’s safety.
The treatment is used by athletes and celebrities, but it is rarely studied and is not regulated by any one group. Doctors do not agree on its benefits.
BUSINESS
• Toyota retook the No. 1 position from Volkswagen as top-selling automaker for the first nine months of 2015. The data covers a period mostly before the V.W. emissions scandal erupted.
• Walmart is joining Amazon in pushing ahead with plans to use drones for home delivery and at its distribution centers and stores.
• The Federal Reserve today begins a two-day meeting, but it’s the December gathering analysts are looking to for a move on interest rates.
• BP said today its profit sank to $46 million in the third quarter from $1.3 billion a year earlier, as depressed oil prices took a toll.
The London-based company is one of a number of blue chips — including Apple and Ford — posting results today.
• Wall Street stocks are slightly lower. European markets closed down, and Asian indexes ended mixed.
NOTEWORTHY
• The World Series, at last.
Game 1 begins tonight in Kansas City (8 p.m. Eastern, Fox) between the Royals and the New York Mets. The Mets’ Daniel Murphy has homered in six consecutive postseason games, a Major League record.
And the pro basketball season begins with a doubleheader on TNT: Cleveland Cavaliers at Chicago Bulls (8 p.m. Eastern) and New Orleans Pelicans at Golden State Warriors (10 p.m. Eastern).
We preview the Eastern Conference and Western Conference.
• Too hot for humans?
Areas of the Persian Gulf could be hit by waves of heat and humidity so severe by the end of this century that being outside for several hours could threaten human life, a new study says.
And a team of scientists went on a perilous trip to find out how fast Greenland is melting away.
• The ambivalent marriage.
New research shows that ambivalence in a relationship — not always supportive, neither terrible nor great — can take a quiet toll on health.
• Law school standards.
Many U.S. law schools are accepting students with test scores that indicate they are “at risk” of not passing the bar exam, according to a study by a nonprofit advocacy group.
• Fresh reads.
Among today’s nonfiction releases: Stacy Schiff’s “The Witches”; Irin Carmon’s “Notorious RBG” (about the Supreme Court justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg); Wendy Williams’ “The Horse”; and Gloria Steinem’s “My Life on the Road.”
• What’s new to watch.
“Frontline” goes “Inside Assad’s Syria,” reporting from government-controlled areas and listening to those caught in the war (10 p.m. Eastern, PBS, but check local listings).
“Wicked City” is a drama series set in the early 1980s in Los Angeles, where a serial killer is on the loose (10 p.m. Eastern, ABC).
And here are your episode recaps for “Blindspot,” “Fargo” and “Jane the Virgin.”
• Love triangle.
It’s opening night for the Broadway revival of “Sylvia,” A. R. Gurney’s comedy about a dog’s influence on the marriage of a New York couple, starring Matthew Broderick, Julie White and Annaleigh Ashford as the poodle named Sylvia.
• Cultural icon.
Sixty years ago today, “Rebel Without a Cause” opened in U.S. movie theaters, a month after its 24-year-old star, James Dean, died in a car crash.
The film is now part of the National Film Registry for its cultural, historical and aesthetic significance.
BACK STORY
The story of the slowly disappearing 1 cent coin adds another chapter on Wednesday.
That’s when shops in Ireland, on a voluntary basis, can start rounding cash purchases in euros up or down to the nearest 5 cents, to reduce the need for 1 and 2 cent coins. (A euro cent is equivalent to about 1.1 U.S. cents.)
Rounding is likely to be extremely popular, judging by a trial run in which 85 percent of consumers and 100 percent of retailers wanted to see it spread nationwide.
The Central Bank of Ireland says that, in euros, it costs 1.65 cents to make a 1 cent coin, and 1.94 cents for a 2 cent one. (In the U.S., the mint says a penny costs 1.7 cents to produce and distribute.)
Countries including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Finland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and Britain have dropped their lowest-denominated coins over the last 30 years or so.
The U.S. did too, back in 1857, when the half-cent coin was eliminated, followed by the end of 2 and 3 cent coins.
How long will the American penny last? Some coin experts say for only about 10 years.
Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Count the budget deal a major victory for President Obama, breaking through spending limits and lasting through the end of his term — though the Republican-dominated Congress will have other ways to fight him. John Boehner called the budget “a good deal,” rejecting criticism from hard-line conservative Republicans angry over his crossing the aisle. He is expected to hand over the House speaker’s gavel to Paul Ryan on Thursday.
_______
2. The Justice Department began an investigation a day after viral videos showed a South Carolina sheriff’s deputy manhandling a high school student who had refused requests to leave her classroom over using a cellphone. “I’m about as disturbed as anybody else can be,” said the officer’s boss, who placed him on leave.
_______
3. “China will firmly react to this deliberate provocation,” a government spokesman said, in a relatively mild rebuke after a U.S. warship sailed near an artificial island that China built in a disputed part of the South China Sea. The U.S. appeared to be following through on warnings over China’s “massive land-building projects” and territorial claims.
_______
4. A national poll shows Ben Carson with a narrow lead over Donald J. Trump, the first time Mr. Trump has not polled first in months. The poll also shows an increasing division within the Republican party that could be difficult to bridge as the primaries and caucuses draw closer.
_______
5. World Series Game 1: After some speculation that rain could force a delay, the game has begun, with the New York Mets facing the Royals. Tune in for inning-by-inning updates and analysis.
_______
6. The pro basketball season got underway: The Cleveland Cavaliers (with LeBron James starting his 13th season) lost to the Bulls in Chicago, 97-95, and the Detroit Pistons beat the Hawks in Atlanta, 106-94. The New Orleans Pelicans are playing the Golden State Warriors in Oakland, Calif.
_______
7. In health news, scientists announced that gains in the American life span have slowed, with experts pointing to obesity as a likely factor. And other researchers have found that health advantages long attributed to marriage are compromised for partners in “ambivalent” unions, those with unpredictable levels of support or negativity.
_______
8. President Obama made his case for an overhaul of the nation’s sentencing laws at a gathering of top law enforcement officials in Chicago. He praised police officers and rejected “any narrative that seeks to divide police and the communities that they serve.” But he also said the country had to find ways to “reduce the damage of the drug trade without relying solely on incarceration.”
_______
 9. There’s a shadow on next year’s SXSW tech festival. BuzzFeed and Vox Media said they might pull out after event organizers canceled two gaming panels, citing threats. The media groups saw it as caving. A faction of the gaming world, GamerGate, has responded to accusations of sexism in gaming culture with harassment and menace.
_______
10. Apple — the world’s most valuable company — reported a profit of $11.1 billion for the fiscal quarter, exceeding Wall Street’s expectations while also forecasting a muted holiday season. In contrast, Twitter’s dismal forecast sent its stock plunging after hours. Outside of tech, BP had a huge quarterly drop because of depressed oil prices.
U.S. stocks closed slightly down across the board.
_______
11. Watch: A special report in The Times tracked a NASA-funded effort to collect critical information on the melting of Greenland’s ice sheet firsthand. “No one has ever collected a data set like this,” said one of the seven scientists who risked their lives to draw samples from icy rivers of meltwater. Our photographer used a drone to capture these images.
_______
12. Watch: A commander in an Emergency Medical Services unit in Texas was running a group of cadets through “Swiftwater Awareness” training at a water park when he noticed a commotion. A boy who had slipped off his inner tube kept going under. The commander’s swift save offered “valuable reinforcement” for the importance of water safety training, the E.M.S. unit said.
Video produced by Sofia Perpetua.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s Evening Briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
What a curious, fascinating spectacle: The two men in the lead got lost in the pack.
Coming into Wednesday night, much of the talk about the third Republican debate focused on Donald Trump and Ben Carson, who were trading places at the top of the polls, two outsiders with no business running for president and significantly more support from Republican voters than any of the conventional candidates could muster.
Which of the two would stand out?
Neither.
Would either of the two seal the deal?
Nope.
For the first hour of the debate, which was staged by CNBC, Trump largely disappeared. His rivals and the moderators demonstrated less interest in him than they had in the past, and a Trump without attention is like a petunia without water and light. It fades. It droops.
And while that presented a window of opportunity for Carson, he lacked the pep to get through a window or, for that matter, an extremely wide set of sliding doors. His eyelids sometimes went to half-mast as he swayed through an answer, making a sluggish voyage to an uncertain destination.
What is it that his supporters see in him?
That was John Kasich’s question, or rather his rant, and he started the evening with it, deciding to put all of his few remaining chips on the role of alarmed, truth-telling adult in a sandbox of delusional toddlers.
He made specific references to Trump’s promises to deport millions of immigrants and to Carson’s musings about eviscerating entitlement programs. He lambasted various opponents’ proposals for huge tax cuts.
“This stuff is fantasy,” he said, striving so hard for urgency that he practically yelped. “Folks, we gotta wake up. We cannot elect somebody that doesn’t know how to do the job.”
Trump knew full well that Kasich had him in mind, and noted that Kasich hadn’t talked this way months ago.
“Then his poll numbers tanked,” Trump said, “and he got nasty. So you know what? You can have him.”
Before the debate began, there was some worry—misplaced, as it turns out—that its fiscal focus would create a tame yawner of a night.
It did lead to an inordinate amount of chatter about flat taxes and shrunken tax policies and miniaturized tax returns. Carly Fiorina said that she’d collapse the whole tax code to three pages. Ted Cruz said that he’d enable Americans to file their tax returns on postcards.
I half expected Rand Paul to one-up them both by pledging to present all of his tax ideas in a single haiku. But he was too busy using his minimal speaking time to complain about his minimal speaking time.
Tempers flared. Voices rose. The economy-centered debate on the money-centered network packed ample emotion, in part because it strayed to such issues as gay rights and gun rights and in part because it came at a crucial moment for many of the debaters.
More so than during the first or second meeting of these candidates, participants acted as if this was the pivot point that would determine whether they’d be steaming forward or fading out. It was the time for meticulously plotted fury. It was the vessel for the best jokes, rejoinders and soliloquies they had. It was the cause for attack.
The defining exchange came early, when Jeb Bush and Marco Rubio banished any memory of their mentor-mentee relationship, which has been obliterated by their head-to-head competition to become level-headed Republicans’ answer to Trump and Carson.
Bush slammed Rubio for all the votes he had missed in the Senate as he concentrated on his presidential bid.
“When you signed up for this, this was a six-year term, and you should be showing up to work,” Bush admonished him. “I mean, literally, the Senate—what is it, like a French work week? You get, like, three days where you have to show up?”
He sharpened the dagger by addressing Rubio not as “Senator” but as “Marco.”
It was an attempt to make Rubio look small.
Then Rubio made him look even smaller, saying Bush was going after him only because “someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.” Translation: Your desperation is showing.
It was, and Bush’s performance on Wednesday night won’t rescue him from it.
Rubio fared much better, keeping his cool in the face of questions meant to rattle him and put him on the defensive. Earlier and better than others on the stage, he turned criticism of him into an indictment of journalists, whom he said were biased against conservatives.
He hit his longest, strongest stride when he combined that indictment with a slap at Hillary Clinton. He said that while most reporters, evaluating her recent testimony before a House committee about Benghazi, said she’d emerged triumphant, “It was the week that she got exposed as a liar. But she has her super PAC helping her out: the American mainstream media.”
Ted Cruz, too, went after the media, singling out CNBC’s debate moderators. And Cruz, too, stood out, despite (or because of?) one of the most tortured metaphors of any debate of the season so far.
Attempting to dismiss the distaste that most of his Congressional colleagues feel for him, he spoke of cars and carbohydrates.
“If you want someone to grab a beer with, I may not be that guy,” he said. “But if you want someone to drive you home, I will get the job done and I will get you home.” He left out the part where you bolt out of the passenger seat and away from him the minute your front door is in sight.
There was amity amid the acrimony, especially on the self-flattering subject of how transcendently wonderful the field of potential Republican nominees is in comparison with the field of potential Democratic nominees.
“I don’t see a lot of weakness on this stage,” said Chris Christie, whose limited vision apparently didn’t extend to the central lecterns at which Trump and Carson stood. “Where I see the weakness is in those three people that are left on the Democratic stage. You know, I see a socialist, an isolationist and a pessimist. And for the sake of me, I can’t figure out which one is which.”
Christie was vivid and forceful, but when it comes to self-congratulation, Trump always reigns supreme, and he roused himself at the end of the night to compliment himself for negotiating a debate of only two hours.
It wasn’t clear that he really deserved the credit. But he definitely deserves our thanks.
DES MOINES — Yes, the moderators of the Republican presidential debate were the biggest losers. Yet on Thursday, Iowans, who are nothing if not pragmatic, put aside the preoccupation of right-wing pundits with how CNBC performed and focused on the candidates.
Like many other scorekeepers nationally, they agreed that Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz were impressive and that Jeb Bush limped out of Boulder, Colo., with something more troubling than a flesh wound.
With little more than three months before Iowa holds the first nominating contest, voters are tuning in and more closely scrutinizing the candidates.
Several have reached perhaps surprising conclusions about the two men who lead in Iowa polls: Donald J. Trump has hit a ceiling without much room to grow, and Ben Carson, while likable, may lack the right experience to be president.
“At one point, I looked at my husband and said, ‘Is Trump still there?’ ” said Sue Smith, a stay-at-home mother of seven in Des Moines. “I don’t think he was a factor one way or the other. Early on, it was fun to have him in the mix because he stirred the pot, but as we get closer to Feb. 1, I’m not comfortable with him as my candidate.”
Of a dozen Iowa Republicans interviewed after the debate who were undecided going into it, representing diverse corners of the state and walks of life, none said Mr. Trump had improved his chances of winning their vote. Their anecdotal reports aligned with a recent poll for The Des Moines Register showing that Mr. Trump was the second choice of only 9 percent of likely Republican caucusgoers, suggesting an upper limit to his support.
The current leader in polls in the state, Mr. Carson, impressed Bob Klaus, known as “Billboard Bob” because of his outdoor advertising business in Cedar Rapids.
“I think Carson has what it takes,” he said, echoing others drawn to the former brain surgeon’s calm demeanor. “He’s a thinker. He can articulate common sense very well.”
Mr. Klaus and his wife rushed home to catch the debate after a ballroom dancing lesson. That Mr. Carson has no governing experience is not a disqualification in Mr. Klaus’s view. “He can surround himself with the right people and lead by example,” he said.
But John Opincar, the chief executive of the University of Phoenix in Des Moines, strongly disagreed. He thought Mr. Carson was out of his depth on economic issues as he sought to explain that his flat tax proposal would not create deficits.
“I was really taken aback,” Mr. Opincar, a certified accountant who teaches business courses, said. “It was a straightforward question, and he got the look of a deer in the headlights.”
To Mr. Opincar, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio had the best nights. Mr. Cruz, who once seemed to him too “harsh around the edges,” was impressive in his ability to articulate what he stands for, Mr. Opincar said.
Teri Rogers of Oskaloosa, the treasurer of her county Republican committee, said she had been leaning toward Mr. Cruz before the debate and came away even more impressed that he would not compromise with Democrats — or squishy Republicans — as president.
“I like the fact he’s not a go-along-to-get-along kind of guy,” Ms. Rogers said. She lamented, as Mr. Cruz does, the new budget deal agreed to by Congressional Republican leaders and the White House.
“It’s going against everything the Republicans we voted for in the past have promised they would fight for,” she said. “And for whatever reason, they aren’t. We believe Senator Cruz is the only one who has tried to put up the fight.”
Timothy Lane, a lieutenant in the Scott County Sheriff’s Office, said if the vote were tomorrow, he would choose Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, who espoused deep tax cuts for companies and individuals in the undercard debate. Mr. Lane called the governor a “true conservative.”
Lieutenant Lane, who is running for county sheriff next year, said voters were angry, and that “anger is what so far has made Donald Trump popular.”
Other voters seemed impressed with Mr. Rubio’s ability to articulate a conservative vision of where the country should go.
Mr. Rubio “has a lot of support with people my age who are Republicans,” said AJ Kelley, 30, an account manager with Thomson Reuters in Des Moines.
Jeremy Danilson, a lawyer in Urbandale, who has heard Mr. Rubio speak on campaign visits, said, “People were waiting to see himself separate himself from Governor Bush, and that happened last night.”
He called it “devastating” when Mr. Rubio, in reply to Mr. Bush’s criticism of the senator’s voting record in the Senate, said, “Someone has convinced you that attacking me is going to help you.”
Mr. Bush “is not the right candidate for this election,” Mr. Danilson said. “We’re looking for a candidate who can articulate a conservative message in a way that is attractive to the American people. I don’t feel like Governor Bush has the skills. Rubio can make conservatism exciting and attractive to people.”
Ms. Kelley also liked Carly Fiorina for making the case that Democrats who advance policies billed as pro-women have presided over a period in which women have not always gained economically.
“Her comments about how three million women dropped below the poverty line in the past seven years, that’s a statistic I hadn’t heard, and I think it’s a hugely important illustration of how much the Democratic policies are failing the people they are making promises to,” she said.
Another Iowan drawn to Mrs. Fiorina, Lyle Brinegar, who owns a construction and remodeling business in Centerville, was disappointed that Mrs. Fiorina did not have any moments equivalent to ones she had in the two earlier debates, after which her poll numbers spiked, only to slide down again.
“I don’t feel like she had the right opportunities to shine,” Mr. Brinegar said.
Mr. Brinegar, the Republican chairman of Appanoose County, said he did not believe that either Mr. Trump or Mr. Carson showed that they were ready to be president. Mr. Carson, he said, would “be in way over his head,” Mr. Trump is too divisive to lead. “I have the same impression after each debate: He took advantage of several opportunities to prove he’s an ass,” he said.
But Mark Olson, a farmer in Wallingford, in northwest Iowa, came away from the debate without thinking any of the candidates had disqualified themselves. They all had moments to shine. “I thought boy, there’s not any of them I’m really scared of,” he said.
Mr. Olson has a presidential candidate in his own home: his son Brady, who over the summer drew a flutter of national attention after registering as an independent named Deez Nuts. He drew 7 percent in one early Iowa poll. Brady, 15, did not watch the debate, his father said. He was at a high school football game.
Anyone who has spent any time analyzing public opinion and voting data from the last 20 or so years has seen the fault lines that Donald Trump is leveraging. The data is clear: Anxiety about those who are different, support for traditional American values and a resistance toward openness all play a role in how people make up their minds in presidential elections.
They have for some time. Mr. Trump is not the first candidate to appreciate this fissure, but he is the first one in quite a while who has been willing to exploit it so explicitly. The desire to “make America great again” carries a specific implication: like it was before, in the past, when things were different — and better. It is an appeal to nostalgia, patriotism and traditionalism. It works as an appeal to traditional values while sounding like a statement about the future.
It’s the “again” that does the work; it tells people that we will be great by going back to the way things were when we were once great.
To see how these ideas divided the country and set the stage for Mr. Trump, I went back to data collected long before he began talking about making American great again. In 2008, 2009, 2011 and 2012, the survey research firm YouGov asked people a series of questions tapping into their personality traits, their ideas on cosmopolitanism and globalization and their attitudes on race and traditional values. It also asked people to rate presidential candidates and potential candidates. Mr. Trump was one of them.
In 2008, YouGov asked people a battery of questions that identified five personality traits. In 2011 it asked the same people to rate Mr. Trump. One of the personality traits in the battery is called openness. Someone who scores high on openness is relatively more likely to be drawn to explore complicated or unfamiliar things: the person who orders that item on the menu that no one else risks trying or who is drawn to a career demanding creativity more than reliance on routine. The data show clearly that people who score high on openness have lower ratings of Mr. Trump than those who score low. There was a 20-percentage point increase in Mr. Trump’s negative ratings among those people with high openness scores. These differences exist in the population at large, but are largest within the Republican Party.
The survey also asked people to agree or disagree with a statement social scientists use to assess attitudes about race and values like a work ethic: “Generations of slavery and discrimination have created conditions that make it difficult for African-Americans to work their way out of the lower class.”
Within the Republican Party, people who agreed with this statement had lower ratings of Mr. Trump. Disagreeing with the statement increased his neutral and favorable ratings. The same pattern holds among Democrats, but fewer of them have high ratings of Mr. Trump. Believing that hard work can overcome limitations — even those imposed by historical prejudices — draws people to Mr. Trump’s side.
The survey also asked people questions about how they relate to others. Respondents could agree or disagree with statements that tap into how people think about getting along with others who are different. The first statement is, “Differences across global cultures and religions are too great to manage and we should stop trying so hard to minimize them” and the second is, “I try to be sensitive to people from other cultures and religions.” People who agreed with the first statement and disagreed with the second — in other words, people who didn’t think it was important to make an effort to close cultural gaps — were far more likely to hold favorable views of Mr. Trump.
These differences on fundamental personality traits like a willingness to try to get along with people and support for values like hard work separate those in the Republican Party who are drawn to Mr. Trump from those who are not. Mr. Trump has not created this schism; it has long been in place, but his history as a bombastic television personality has given him the skills and confidence to say things more plainly than other candidates do and to achieve maximum broadcasting reach. His combative image, defined and delivered to millions of Americans on NBC’s popular show “The Apprentice,” is a major part of his identity — and that gives him tremendous leeway to say things “in character.”
Few people will change their minds on these things over the next several months — in either direction. Rather, these dimensions represent longstanding beliefs that are most likely developed early in life and are stable over time. This presents Mr. Trump with a rather large problem: It puts a ceiling on his support. National polls in recent weeks have shown his support waning as other candidates get their ideas across to voters. Voters who leave him are likely to spread out among the other contenders and not end up in the same place.
An opportunity exists for one of the remaining candidates to leverage these personality traits and attitudes in the hopes of attracting Mr. Trump’s supporters while also advancing a broader vision that attracts the rest of the party. But that’s a tough task, and none of the remaining candidates have shown signs of trying to explicitly give it a shot.
There are few on Wall Street who can captivate an audience like the billionaire investor Carl C. Icahn. On Tuesday, the activist hedge fund manager, who has drawn ire from corporate America for his abrasive manner with corporate chieftains, entertained once again.
Speaking at the DealBook conference at the Whitney Museum of American Art, Mr. Icahn told a rambling story about an investment he made in ACF Industries about 31 years ago. (He still owns the stock today, he said). Mr. Icahn described how after gaining control of the company, he spent days visiting its New York office and interviewing many of its employees to try to understand how the business worked.
“I spend the whole day there, go home, take a look at my yellow pad and I can’t tell what the hell they do.” So, he said, he hired consultants to help.
“They come back in three weeks with a big book — boom boom boom, yellow graphs, red graphs, green graphs. I say, ‘Hey, I ain’t going to read this book,’ ” he told the audience.
“And I’m colorblind anyway,” he added, soliciting laughter.
Mr. Icahn also joked about Donald Trump, the Republican presidential candidate who recently said he wanted Mr. Icahn to be his treasury secretary.
“No, I know he says that, but there is no way I would ever do that,” Mr. Icahn said. “I am never going to be secretary of anything.”
Still, Mr. Icahn said he was supporting Mr. Trump’s bid for president. “At this point, I don’t see who else I would support.”
Over the years, Mr. Icahn has built a reputation for being a savvy investor who buys up a big position in a company’s stock in order to pressure management for change. He has often battled with companies to try to make that change happen.
Mr. Icahn gave a glimpse of that tougher side too on Tuesday. Speaking about Family Dollar, the discount retailer that he called on to sell itself last year, Mr. Icahn told the tale of how he invited the chief executive to his house for dinner, something that Mr. Icahn often does with companies he goes to battle with.
“I make a martini and I say, ‘Have a martini.’ And he says, ‘You know, I’d love to have a martini, I’d love to, but I must keep my wits about me for this meeting.’ ”
Mr. Icahn paused before delivering the punchline. “I said, ‘It’s not going to help you.’ ”
When asked about his plans to have dinner with the chief executive of American International Group, the insurance company that Mr. Icahn recently called on to break itself up into smaller parts, Mr. Icahn told the audience that they weren’t just having dinner.
“He’s coming to see me,” he said.
But Mr. Icahn was not all jokes. He also warned that the financial system in the United States faced “real problems.”
“We’re walking into a minefield of what’s going on with the Fed,” he said. “I could go on and on here, but I think we have problems.”
The decision by “Saturday Night Live” to invite Donald J. Trump as its host this week is no laughing matter — at least for the Hispanic and pro-immigration groups that have intensified their calls for Lorne Michaels, the show’s producer, to rescind the invitation.
On Wednesday, more than a dozen of the nation’s leading Hispanic groups are planning to hold a “Dump Trump” rally outside 30 Rockefeller Plaza, where “Saturday Night Live” is taped. Latino and immigration groups also plan to deliver a petition, with 460,000 signatures, calling on NBC Studios and Mr. Michaels to drop Mr. Trump.
The groups have cited comments by Mr. Trump dismissing some Mexican immigrants as criminals and “rapists.”
On Monday, the Congressional Hispanic Caucus issued a statement also calling on NBC Universal and Mr. Michaels “to disinvite Mr. Trump”
The caucus called Mr. Trump’s comments “divisive and hateful rhetoric toward Mexicans and Latinos alike” and said they could lead to violence and raised fears within immigrant and Hispanic communities throughout the country.
“When a TV personality calls Mexicans and Latinos criminals and rapists, a corporate network should not give him 90 minutes of free airtime in an entertainment venue without his first apologizing to the American people,” Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez, Democrat of Illinois, said in a statement. “Did I miss an apology?”
NBC Universal severed its business relationship with Mr. Trump over his comments, which he made in June as he announced his candidacy. “Saturday Night Live” declined to comment.
On Tuesday, speaking at the Trump Tower before signing copies of his new book, Mr. Trump seemed undaunted. “Oh, good, it will get even higher ratings,” he said. “It’s going to be one of the highest-rated shows ever.”
Mr. Trump has proved a ratings boon for television networks, including helping to bring record-breaking viewers to the first three Republican debates.
But immigration and Hispanic groups are eager to draw attention to Mr. Trump’s statements.
“It is disappointing to see that Lorne Michaels and the executives at NBC are willing to prioritize their ratings over the dignity and respect of their viewers,” said Juan Escalante, a digital campaigns manager for America’s Voice, one of the pro-immigration groups participating in the protest. “On Wednesday, we will raise our voices and ensure that NBC and ‘S.N.L.’ understand that Trump’s attacks on Latinos and immigrants are not funny.” 
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• Victories for social conservatives.
Voters in Houston, the fourth-largest city in the U.S., rejected a measure that would have banned discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, race and a dozen other categories on Tuesday. It was one of the country’s most closely watched referendums on Election Day.
In Kentucky, Matt Bevin, a political novice and Tea Party favorite, became only the second Republican in four decades to win the governorship, in a vote that some considered a referendum on the national health care law and on same-sex marriage.
Ohio rejected a ballot to legalize marijuana for medical and recreational use. In a victory for Airbnb, San Francisco voted down a proposal that would have restricted short-term home and apartment rentals.
• The rise of the angry voter.
A new NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll finds that Republican primary voters are troubled by the direction of American society, while Democratic primary voters describe themselves as proud of the steps the country has taken to protect minority rights.
What the groups have in common is anger at the political system.
Latino groups are calling for NBC’s “Saturday Night Live” to drop Donald J. Trump as this weekend’s host.
• Keeping up with our neighbors.
A ruling today by Mexico’s Supreme Court on whether to legalize recreational marijuana could lay the groundwork for a wave of legal actions that could ultimately rewrite other drug laws.
And the leader of the Liberal Party in Canada, Justin Trudeau, will be sworn in as the country’s 23rd prime minister this morning. Dozens of immigrants will be sworn into Parliament, reflecting a changing country.
• Climate complications.
China has been using up to 17 percent more coal a year than reported, which means that almost a billion more tons of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas, is being released annually.
The increase alone is greater than Germany’s annual emissions from fossil fuels, and the numbers could complicate the already difficult talks to address global warming.
On Saturday, the presidents of Taiwan and China will meet in Singapore, the first such meeting since 1949, although no agreements are expected.
BUSINESS
• The U.S. Commerce Department reports today on the nation’s trade balance in September. If the net trade deficit is wider than expected, it would not bode well for economic growth in the third and fourth quarters.
• Facebook reports its third-quarter earnings today. Analysts will be looking at the growth in the number of users — almost 1.5 billion at the end of March — and how much time they’re spending on the platform.
• Shares in Japan Post, the country’s mail network and one of the world’s largest banking and insurance groups, soared today in a $11.6 billion listing, the largest initial public offering globally this year.
• Honda raised its full-year revenue forecast today, a day after announcing that it would no longer use Takata airbags, millions of which have been recalled, in vehicles under development.
• Wall Street stocks are weaker today. European markets closed mixed, and Asian indexes finished sharply higher.
NOTEWORTHY
• A most valuable estate. 
Sotheby’s begins selling the $500 million art collection — from old masters like Raphael to 20th-century masterworks by Modigliani, Matisse, Picasso, Schiele and de Kooning — that belonged to A. Alfred Taubman, its former chairman, who died in April.
Expectations are high for the auction season beginning tonight. And here’s how auction houses orchestrate sales for maximum drama.
• TV networks want to read your mind.
Comcast and Viacom are creating labs to study viewers, using infrared cameras tracking their eye movements and facial reactions while people are hooked up to skin sensors and heart monitors.
Networks see it as a way for them to better target ads.
• New York City marathoner lost his way.
A disheveled and confused Italian marathoner, still in his running gear, was found by an off-duty officer in the city’s subway two days after the race.
• Baseball’s best.
The Gold Glove Awards, for the top performances by Major League Baseball players in each of the fielding positions in the American League and the National League, are announced today.
• College football’s best.
Clemson, Louisiana State, Ohio State, Alabama and Notre Dame lead the season’s first College Football Playoff rankings, released Tuesday night.
• What’s new to watch. 
Carrie Underwood and Brad Paisley are co-hosts of tonight’s Country Music Awards (8 p.m. Eastern, ABC). Last year, Miranda Lambert won 11 awards, a record for a female performer.
BACK STORY
Transcendental Meditation, the 1960s approach to what today we might call “mindfulness,” has long had celebrity advocates, starting with the Beatles, who followed its founder to India in 1967.
Tonight, several other stars — Katy Perry, Sting and Jerry Seinfeld among them — perform at a Carnegie Hall concert in New York to raise money for the David Lynch Foundation, which the film director has devoted to spreading the word on T.M.
It turns out that T.M. was not just a fad of the rich, famous and nirvana-seeking. Millions are T.M. adherents today.
Among the 21st-century converts to the simple, twice-a-day approach to reducing stress are public schools, hedge funds and veterans’ groups.
Scientific proof of T.M.’s health benefits is hard to come by, but meditation in general is known to lessen anxiety and promote calm.
Some critics question T.M.’s cost — about $1,000 will get you training under a T.M.-licensed teacher — and deride its onetime religious and guru-following connotations.
But the current leader of the official organization, Tony Nader, lacks the cultlike devotion associated with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who founded T.M. in the mid-1950s and who died in 2008.
And today’s followers insist T.M. is completely secular.
Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
Sometime in the near future, a transgender teenager in Texas will attempt suicide — and maybe succeed — because vilifying people for their gender identity remains politically acceptable in America.
The hateful rhetoric of leaders like Gov. Greg Abbott of Texas and Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick is the latest, ugliest example. Mr. Patrick was ebullient on Tuesday night after it became clear that Houston voters had decidedly rejected a broad equal rights ordinance that opponents maliciously and misleadingly characterized as a boon for cross-dressing sex offenders.
“It was about protecting our grandmoms and our mothers and our wives and our sisters and our daughters and our granddaughters,” Mr. Patrick said as he thanked a crowd of joyful supporters who nodded and cried “Amen!”
The Houston Equal Rights Ordinance, or HERO, which the City Council passed 18 months ago, established sensible protections from discrimination for 15 classes of people. It would have given people with disabilities, like Mr. Abbott, a paraplegic, a mechanism to fight employment or housing discrimination. It would have given veterans, pregnant women and senior citizens a valuable layer of protection and prohibited discrimination based on race, color, religion and national origin. But it was its inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity that turned a sensible initiative into a nasty national controversy.
Opponents of the law, led by Jared Woodfill, a Houston lawyer and a Texas Republican Party leader, started a well-funded campaign that equated supporting it with allowing men to use women’s public restrooms for deviant purposes. Their fearmongering, blasted on yard signs, bellowed from church pulpits and dramatized in a television ad, suggested that sexual deviants were waiting for the ordinance to kick in to sneak up on unsuspecting women in bathroom stalls.
This is completely unfounded. There are no documented cases of peeping Toms or rapists taking advantage of anti-discrimination ordinances that have extended legal protections to transgender Americans in recent years. San Antonio  passed a similar ordinance in 2013  that expanded civil rights without driving up criminal assaults. And of course, no one expects that Houston perverts, after Tuesday’s lamentable result, will now drive down to San Antonio to corner women in restroom stalls.
While the defeat of HERO is a painful setback, it is encouraging that the broader quest for equality for gay and transgender Americans is advancing steadily. On Monday, the Department of Education backed a transgender student in Illinois who is fighting for the right to use restrooms and locker rooms on campus like any other female student. It was the federal government’s latest action in a civil rights movement that is redefining how the nation views, and treats, transgender Americans.
When that movement achieves irreversible momentum — and it is a matter of when, not whether — people like Mr. Woodfill, Mr. Abbott and Mr. Patrick will be remembered as latter-day Jim Crow elders. Their demagogy is egregious because it preys on some of the most vulnerable people in our society.
As opponents of the ordinance celebrate their victory this week, transgender people across the country are understandably reeling. They should take comfort in knowing that history will not be kind to the haters who won on Tuesday. In time, the bigots are destined to lose.
The first notes Peter Evans produced on his trumpet at Roulette on Wednesday resembled tiny yelps and sobs. Soft, frayed and separated by inhospitable patches of silence, they announced themselves almost apologetically: aware, perhaps, of how short they fell of traditional expectations of how music — or a trumpet — should sound.
Within moments, any bashfulness was swept aside as Mr. Evans unleashed a torrent of breathtaking, athletic and often disconcerting virtuosity that rushed by unbroken for close to an hour in a solo improvisation presented as part of his residency at this Brooklyn performance space. The sounds he squeezed, coaxed and bullied out of his instrument during that time often defied belief.
Shoving the bell of his trumpet over a microphone, Mr. Evans produced cymbal-like crashes. Removing the mouthpiece and manipulating the angle between bell and mike allowed him to create richly layered textures, with high squeals and stutters above a dull-thudding bass line. One flurry of low arpeggios sounded like a full cello section.
For a good 20 minutes Mr. Evans sustained a drone underneath a flutter of fast notes using circular breathing, sucking in air through his nose without interrupting the airflow through his trumpet. At this point his face was glistening with sweat and I found myself furtively glancing around the room for the CPR kit. Playing any brass instrument nonstop for this long is physically taxing; what Mr. Evans did seemed outright dangerous.
That, of course, is part of the act. Mr. Evans’s solo improvisations leave the audience unmoored, adrift on a stream of sounds that constantly take on new and alien colors. Such free-form musical explorations can induce feelings of helplessness and frustration in the listener. Or they can create an intimate bond, with the audience sharing in both the creative exhilaration and physical suffering of the performer.
On Wednesday Mr. Evans kept his distance. When he reached the last note of his mind-bending marathon performance he lowered the trumpet and said, “That’s it.” It took a few moments before the dazed audience began to applaud.
It’s been a running question of this year’s Republican primary cycle: Is Donald J. Trump a clown?
Answer: Not nearly enough for “Saturday Night Live.”
It would be unfair to blame Mr. Trump alone for the deadness of the Nov. 7 episode. It’s hardly the first time the show has worked with a host who struggled with comedy line readings (some were professional actors). The bigger problem was the anodyne material. Mr. Trump said he hosted the episode to show he could “take a joke,” but “S.N.L.” hardly threw any his way.
Instead, having chased ratings by casting the controversial candidate, “S.N.L.” stuck with obvious, anemic political riffs and apolitical sketches that were cringeworthy all around. Mr. Trump himself had said that he had vetoed some material he found too risqué (a prerogative of hosts in the past), so maybe he killed better material that we’ll never see. But “S.N.L.,” having cast a boisterous figure whose political raison d’être is “winning,” delivered an episode that did nothing except play not to lose.
Arguably the most exciting moment of the broadcast came during Mr. Trump’s brief monologue, when Larry David — on set to reprise his role as Senator Bernie Sanders — called out “You’re a racist!” from the wings. It was a clever move to co-opt the $5,000 bounty that protesters had offered to anyone willing to disrupt the live broadcast. But it was a clear setup; Mr. David delivered his lines half-smiling, and Mr. Trump’s prepared response (“As a businessman, I can fully respect that”) fell flat.
That bit captured the problem with the episode: no one’s heart seemed to be in anything. “S.N.L.” is not obligated to take sides in the election — or not to take sides — but as a topical comedy show, it needs to have some point of view, an animating idea.
Instead, the show used Mr. Trump, or the idea of Mr. Trump, in predictable ways, as in a sketch he introduced that mocked a limp restaurant gag with mean tweets. His most specifically political bit was the first full-length sketch, which imagined Mr. Trump in the Oval Office in 2018 after having defeated ISIS, gotten Mexico to pay for a border wall and made the Russian leader, Vladimir V. Putin, cry by insulting him.
In theory, it was a sharp idea: just as Tina Fey lampooned Sarah Palin in 2008 using variations on her own words, the sketch presented Mr. Trump’s own grand, vaguely sketched campaign promises — “You will be bored of winning” — as their own parody. (Asked in the sketch how he had been so successful, he answered, “Well, you know what, I don’t have to get specific. With me, it just works, you know, it’s magic.”) But the segment fell lifeless and mostly laughless on the Oval Office carpet. Even a surprise cameo by Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka left the audience quiet.
There is, it turns out, something worse than heckling: silence. The crowd seemed to check out early, creating an energy-sucking vicious cycle. (Some of Mr. Trump’s biggest applause came when he first introduced the musical guest, Sia. Maybe because it rhymed with, “See ya.”)
The “Weekend Update” segment was more pointed, sending up Mr. Trump along with several other candidates. Without the host present, co-anchor Michael Che poked at Mr. Trump’s questioning of President Obama’s birth certificate and his promise to “make America great again.” (“Whenever rich old white guys start bringing up the good old days, my Negro senses start tingling.”)
But the rest of the episode deployed Mr. Trump in sketches that played like parodies of late-episode “S.N.L.” filler material: he strummed a laser harp in a bar band, walked on to Vanessa Bayer and Cecily Strong’s “Former Porn Stars” endorsement of him, danced like a tax guy in a parody of Drake’s “Hotline Bling” video, played a sleazy record producer pitching demo recordings to amateurs.
It’s not as if anyone could reasonably expect “S.N.L.” to blisteringly satirize its own host, any more than it did Hillary Rodham Clinton  when she guested on a generally charitable sketch earlier this season. Whatever one can say about Donald Trump, he’s shrewd about the TV business. He knows what pressures producers work under, he knows what he can deliver in ratings and he knows the leverage that gives him.
He’s used all that to his advantage in the campaign. He’s not only availed himself of free media, he’s often set the terms — for instance, phoning into to news shows that usually prefer candidates to sit in person for questioning. He’s even used television savvy as a political point. In the most recent Republican debate, he said that he had pressured CNBC to limit the length of its debate to two hours and cited that as evidence of his skill as a negotiator.
On a meta level, Mr. Trump probably left “S.N.L.” with another such victory. The episode is not likely to hurt him among any voting group. He can take credit for the high ratings — adding that he delivered for a network that recently had cut ties with him over his comments about Mexican immigrants — and lay any criticism on the writing staff.
And what did “S.N.L.” and producer Lorne Michaels get? The ratings, but then again, any new viewers tuned in to see a joyless, unfunny show, which ended in a curtain call with Mr. Trump and the cast that played like a hostage video.
In this bargain, Donald Trump won. And just like he’d warned us, it was boring.
Donald J. Trump, who has taken well-documented liberties with facts from his own life story and from his campaign for president, sought repeatedly on Sunday to cast doubt on the honesty of Ben Carson, his surging Republican rival.
Mr. Trump directly challenged the veracity of important stories from Mr. Carson’s autobiography, like his recollection of trying to stab a childhood friend.
On Sunday, Mr. Trump seemed incredulous about Mr. Carson’s claim that his friend’s belt buckle had blocked the stabbing.
“That’s pretty unlikely, ’cause a belt buckle will turn,” Mr. Trump said on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “You know, a belt buckle is not going to stop a knife.”
So far, nobody else has verified that account, which appeared in Mr. Carson’s autobiography, “Gifted Hands.”
No detail of Mr. Carson’s life seemed too small for Mr. Trump to question and seek to undermine. He wondered about Mr. Carson’s memory of meeting with Gen. William C. Westmoreland at a military dinner in Detroit, around the time that Mr. Carson says he was offered a full scholarship to the United States Military Academy.
Mr. Trump said he had read that General Westmoreland was not in Detroit at the time. “Maybe it’s right, and maybe it’s wrong,” he said of Mr. Carson’s account.
With Mr. Carson suddenly surpassing him in national polls, Mr. Trump’s instinct to attack, with force and repetition, was on full display during a series of television interviews. It was an intriguing turn for Mr. Trump, given his long history of shading the truth and later admitting it, sometimes under oath.
In preparation for a lawsuit he filed claiming defamation, Mr. Trump was asked during a 2007 deposition if he exaggerated about the value of his real estate holdings. “I think everyone does,” Mr. Trump replied. Pressed further, he said he exaggerated “not beyond reason.”
In a precursor to Mr. Carson’s woes, Mr. Trump has acknowledged embellishing a claim about himself in two books he wrote. As he described his financial comeback, Mr. Trump claimed that his debts had reached $9 billion in the 1990s. But in the 2007 deposition, Mr. Trump conceded that the figure was incorrect. (“That is a mistake,” he said, “and I don’t know how it got there.”)
Such fact-bending has extended to his campaign for president. During the last Republican presidential debate, Mr. Trump denied that he had called Senator Marco Rubio of Florida the “personal senator” of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, an advocate of immigration reform. Mr. Trump’s own campaign website had, in fact, described Mr. Rubio that way.
In television interviews on Sunday, Mr. Carson emphatically defended himself against claims that he had embellished his life story and expressed disappointment in Mr. Trump’s remarks.
“What does it say about people who immediately jump on the bandwagon if they hear something bad rather than waiting and finding out what the truth is?” Mr. Carson asked on ABC’s “This Week.”
Asked what it told him about people like Mr. Trump, he replied, “I would not be anxious to have a commander in chief who acted that way.”
Mr. Carson gave little ground to people demanding that he verify anecdotes now in dispute.
In an interview with NBC, he said he would not make his brother available to discuss episodes from the candidate’s youth. Reporters are interested in speaking with the sibling because Mr. Carson now says he tried to stab a relative, not a mere friend.
“My brother’s not interested in talking to the media,” Mr. Carson said. “A number of other people aren’t, either, that I’ve talked to.”
Mr. Trump seemed to relish the chance to discuss Mr. Carson’s disputed anecdotes.
But he took a little license with Mr. Carson’s words. Mr. Carson has written about having a “pathological temper” in childhood. Mr. Trump said on Sunday that Mr. Carson had a “pathological disease” and suggested it would be difficult to recover from such a condition.
“You write in a book you have pathological disease — pathological disease is not cured,” Mr. Trump told CBS. On ABC, he added, “That’s a very serious thing to have to live with.”
Mr. Trump offered a note of sympathy for Mr. Carson that seemed just short of sincerity: “I hope it works out fine for Ben.”
Donald J. Trump hosted “Saturday Night Live” this past weekend and gave interviews to at least four national television networks on Sunday. The result: an opportunity to reach millions of potential voters, without spending a dime.
In fact, while many of his Republican presidential rivals have poured money into the airwaves in search of such exposure, Mr. Trump has not spent any money at all on television advertising since he announced his candidacy in June. Yet he has remained at or near the top of most national and state polls for months.
“TV ads are necessary, they can be effective, but in terms of overall value, being the host of ‘Saturday Night Live’ is probably going to get you a lot more as a candidate than 20 ‘super PAC’ ads,” said Dave Levinthal, senior political reporter at the Center for Public Integrity.
Thirty-second television commercials were once signs of a confident, well-financed candidacy for the White House. Now they are seen as a last resort of struggling campaigns that have not mastered the art of attracting the free media coverage that has lifted the political fortunes of insurgent campaigns like those of Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon who has surged to the top of the polls.
Mr. Trump’s ability to command media attention and reach voters without depleting his campaign funds is just the latest example of the way that his campaign has upended the conventional approach candidates have used to communicate with voters.
In addition to having done countless interviews, Mr. Trump has been effective in using social media to attack his rivals, and many of his acrid and controversial quips on Twitter are rebroadcast by traditional news media outlets.
“I think he’s found ways to gain print and airtime by being available and quotable,” said Mike Schreurs, the founder and chief executive of Strategic America, a marketing and advertising firm based in Iowa. “He’s probably a more sophisticated user of media than any other presidential candidate we’ve ever seen.”
Always a boon for campaigns, free media — or earned media, as it is sometimes called — has become increasingly important this cycle for several reasons. Mr. Trump, a businessman turned reality-TV star turned politician, has commanded much of the media’s attention that otherwise could have gone to his rivals, without having to spend any money on television ads so far. (Last week, however, he went up with his first round of paid media — and opted for radio instead of television).
The crowded Republican field is another factor in the diminished importance of paid advertising. Positive ads in particular, which campaigns and outside groups typically use early in the election cycle, have been less effective in breaking through the clutter.
“In a big field like this, positive advertising has less value than you do in a two- or three-person race,” said Russ Schriefer, a media consultant who works for the campaign of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. “So I think what you’re seeing is people spending a lot of money on positives, and they’re not really moving numbers, particularly if those people have high name ID to begin with.”
At this point in 2011, Republican candidates and outside groups had spent roughly $6.7 million, compared with roughly $35 million this cycle, according to Kantar Media/CMAG, which tracks political advertising. But the influx of money this primary season, strategists and operatives say, has not necessarily yielded large gains in the polls.
Paid advertising right now, said Elizabeth Wilner, senior vice president for political advertising at Kantar Media, “is more of a show of weakness than strength.”
Paid television ads have so far failed to buoy foundering campaigns or to provide struggling candidates much help in the polls the way the did in previous election cycles. Between January and the end of October, for instance, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Jeb Bush, and the outside groups supporting Mr. Bush, ran the most paid ads: 7,539 for Mrs. Clinton and 7,465 for Mr. Bush, according to an analysis by the Center for Public Integrity and Kantar Media/CMAG.
Yet Mrs. Clinton’s and Mr. Bush’s poll numbers dropped throughout the spring and summer. (Mrs. Clinton’s ratings have since started to rebound, but Mr. Bush’s numbers have remained low.)
And Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin dropped out of the race just as a super PAC supporting him went on a $17 million spending spree.
The campaigns are quick to acknowledge the value of free media. Alex Conant, a spokesman for Senator Marco Rubio’s campaign, said its candidate — a young, telegenic Cuban-American — is one of the most effective tools it has to reach voters directly.
“We put him out there,” Mr. Conant said. “Whenever he’s on TV, that’s a good moment for our campaign.”
Some campaigns even track their earned media impressions, paying attention to which media markets and programs in the early nominating states have the best ratings with the candidate’s target voters. Mr. Rubio’s team uses that information to help determine which television appearances he will make.
Outside groups and the parties themselves are also paying more attention to driving free media coverage.
“We don’t have a candidate who can go out there and make news, so we have to figure out what’s going on and figure out how we can inject our messaging into what is going on in the news,” said Colin Reed, the executive director of America Rising, a Republican super PAC.
Television ads are still important, Mr. Reed added, but “people are getting their information from social media and different ways, as opposed to just television ads.”
And though the Republican National Committee has run several targeted cable ads against Mrs. Clinton, its focus is on building on an existing research file against her from her 2008 run, and trying to place a steady stream of negative stories about her, hoping to fan a perception that she is not trustworthy and does not care about average Americans.
“With Hillary, the ‘drip, drip, drip,’ as she refers to it, just reinforces the narrative, so it doesn’t have to be a $20 million ad,” said Sean Spicer, a spokesman for the committee.
Priorities USA, the Democratic super PAC supporting Mrs. Clinton, is similarly making more of an effort than in 2012 to inject itself in the daily media mix, in part to combat all the Republican candidates — and outside groups — attacking her.
Of course, earned media has always functioned in concert with paid advertising, and operatives believe that negative ads could upend the dynamic yet again.
“The real question with paid media will be when the candidates start to spend that money attacking one another, and what impact does that have,” Mr. Schriefer of the Christie campaign said.
Donald Trump’s appearance on “Saturday Night Live” last weekend was memorable for a few things, none having much to do with his comedic skills.
In fact, as reviewers parsed over his appearance, it was strange to note how a man who has been the source of so much comedy this political season only seems to make people laugh when he’s at his most serious.
Joe Berkowitz wrote on Vulture: “After watching this epic miscalculation, though, it’s clear that nobody wins; not Trump, not the show, and certainly not us.”
The Daily Beast said he “bombs terribly” and questioned whether the appearance was the beginning of the end of the Trump campaign.
The New York Post even theorized that “it looked like ‘SNL’ was trying to sabotage Trump.”
But perhaps the biggest sign that this presidential contender hadn’t connected came at the end of the show, when Mr. Trump gathered with the cast for the requisite “thanks and good night” appearance, and nearly everyone who had appeared on the show seemed to be standing as far away from him as possible.
What happened to the warm and fuzzy farewell, the one that has become standard, even for colorful and controversial hosts?
Seemingly gone.
As if someone had sensed he was in hostile territory, there was his daughter Ivanka Trump — who had appeared in an early skit — standing at his side, providing a measure of good cheer.
To the other was Larry David, looking straight out into the audience. At one point, he actually seemed to snarl.
The musical guest, Sia, was holding on to Mr. David’s waist, giving her metaphorical distance from Mr. Trump.
After Mr. Trump drummed up applause for Sia, Mr. David and Ivanka, cast members eager to show some good cheer flooded Mr. David.
First came Kate McKinnon, known for her Hillary Rodham Clinton impersonation, rushing in to give him — and not Mr. Trump — a hug.
Then the camera panned to Sia, who was giving warm congratulations to the cast member Leslie Jones, rather than the orange-haired hotelier standing next to her.
Finally, Mr. Trump did what few hosts in recent memory have had to do.
He turned to his left and began shaking the hands of the comedians who seemed to be snubbing him.
He approached them himself.
That followed what had been more or less a campaign first from Mr. Trump: a shrug and what appeared to be a look of self-doubt.
“What a great evening,” he said, as if trying to convince both the audience and himself.
Going into the latest debate, the trending question about Jeb Bush on Google was whether he was “still running for president.”
The answer is yes, and on Tuesday night, he tried, yet again, to put an exclamation point on it.
After a week of fresh attention to the rococo psychology of the Bush dynasty, after huddles with new media advisers, after countless requiems for his campaign, Bush gave his troubled, increasingly quixotic quest one more shot, maybe his last.
But he couldn’t quite run. The best that Bush has in him, in the end, is a vigorous limp.
He started the night well, staring down Donald Trump on the question of illegal immigration and sarcastically thanking Trump for giving him some speaking time.
“What a generous man you are,” he told Trump before going on to attack his supposed plan to deport millions of immigrants as wrong and mean.
“It’s not embracing American values and it would tear communities apart,” Bush said emphatically.
But during a subsequent argument over federal spending, one in which the insertion of Bush’s voice would have made complete sense, he stood mute, unable to find a way into the discussion even as John Kasich successfully butted in and took up residence there.
And in the second half of the debate, when Bush said that Trump’s statements about Vladimir Putin, Syria and the Islamic State made the world sound like “a board game,” he had his thunder stolen by Carly Fiorina.
She went bolder, louder and snarkier, noting that when she met Putin it was “not in a green room.” She thus dismissed Trump as nothing more than a frivolous TV presence, a talking head with a tepee of hair.
And she really got under his skin.
“Why does she keep interrupting everybody?” Trump said, seemingly forgetting that he’d been trying to make nice with her ever since that sexist, ugly comment about her face. He was booed.
And it wasn’t the first time.
Earlier, when he spat out some nastiness at Kasich, there were also boos.
Trump’s bullying is getting as old as his bellicosity is wearing thin, and this debate, the fourth meeting of Republican candidates, made that abundantly clear.
Here’s what else came into focus:
Kasich and Bush have each made a firm, last-ditch decision to play the seasoned, reasonable veteran among interlopers spouting nonsense and hard-core conservatives who could never beat Hillary Clinton. Sadly for Bush, Kasich played the part with more passion.
“On-the-job training for president of the United States doesn’t work,” Kasich said, alluding to President Obama and taking a dig at Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz without mentioning their names.
Rubio is not just smooth but clever and disciplined. Eager to live up to the buzz that he’s really the front-runner, and even more eager to put to rest the chatter that he’s too young and callow, he stood tallest and spoke most forcefully when talking about issues of global leadership. It was as if he’d come dressed in a T-shirt that said “Commander in Chief.”
But he was scary, charting a course of unrestrained interventionism, and when he fielded a final question about how he’d stack up to Clinton, he reverted to talking points.
Cruz then grabbed the ball, skewering Clinton more sharply and showing that he could out-eloquent Rubio and out-nasty anyone. Has a young politician ever managed to be so impressive and so repulsive all at once?
That’s the fascination of Cruz, and the most fun Tuesday night was his stumble on the very ground that tripped up Rick Perry four years ago. During a debate back then, Perry said he wanted to eliminate three federal departments or agencies and could name only two. Cruz said he wanted to eliminate five and named the Commerce Department twice.
Neither Cruz nor Rubio did anything to destroy the momentum they carried out of the last debate. Fiorina may get another brief bounce. And Ben Carson? He was again so low-key he almost seemed sleepy. He sounded utterly out of his depth on foreign policy. But he wasn’t rattled at all by a question (too brief, with no follow-up) about his exaggerated autobiography. He meanders on.
The stage was strangely denuded, like a forest after overzealous logging. There were eight contenders where there had once been 11 — back in the glory days of Scott Walker.
Even so, Bush couldn’t and didn’t stand out the way he, more than anyone else, really needed to.
He can take some solace though, in the No. 1 questions about two rivals that were trending on Google.
“Who is Rand Paul?” was one.
And the other, my favorite: “Why do Republicans hate Ted Cruz?”
Perhaps you didn’t watch the Republican presidential debate this week. That in no way excuses you from having an opinion about it. It’s the last one until December, and all you’ll have to work with if you want political conversation at Thanksgiving dinner.
Except, perhaps, Donald Trump’s proposal that we boycott Starbucks for changing its holiday coffee cup design. He also promised a crowd recently that when he is president “we’re all going to be saying ‘Merry Christmas’ again.” Even if you never said it before? Hard to tell.
But about the debate. Jeb Bush sent out a mass email before the event began, asking all his “friends” to send him a dollar so he’d “know you’re at home cheering me on.” Doesn’t that sound a little pathetic?
As promised, it was certainly more issue-oriented than the ones that went before. However, the subject was supposed to be the economy, and we have long since learned that when these people talk tax plans, we’re not going to hear anything except the word low. And occasionally flat. 
“As you noted, I have rolled out a bold and simple flat tax: 10 percent for every American that would produce booming growth and 4.9 million new jobs within a decade,” said Ted Cruz. In a perfect world, someone would have jumped up and yelled, “Say what?” since Cruz was talking about a potential $3 trillion budget hole.
Later, Cruz volunteered that he’d impose sharp budget cuts, including the total elimination of five major agencies — only four of which he could remember. People, do you think this should be the end of Ted Cruz? True, he got around it by listing the Department of Commerce twice, which was a little slicker than “Oops.” But still.
Carly Fiorina kept touting her three-page tax code. Not a three-page tax form — three pages of laws to cover all the taxes paid by every individual and business in the country. She mentioned the three-page code four times during the debate, and not once did anyone say, “Carly, what the heck are you talking about?”
The only person who might have passed for the teller of hard truths was — are you ready? — Ben Carson. While making the ever-popular promise to get rid of loopholes, Carson actually volunteered that he’d ax deductions for charitable contributions and home mortgages. Everybody liked them, Carson acknowledged, in his soft, calming voice. “But the fact of the matter is, people had homes before 1913, when we introduced the federal income tax, and later after that started deductions.”
Profile in courage or failure to think things through? Excellent topic for holiday discussion.
The only two issues that sparked genuine debate were immigration and military affairs. On the immigration front, both Bush and John Kasich attempted to tear into Trump’s plan to deport all the undocumented immigrants in the country. “Think about the families, think about the children,” Kasich begged, in an appeal unlikely to tug at the heartstrings of the Trump base.
Trump, for his part, claimed that President Dwight Eisenhower deported 1.5 million illegal immigrants to Mexico and stayed popular. (“Dwight Eisenhower. You don’t get nicer. You don’t get friendlier.”) This was a program titled “Operation Wetback” during which some deportees drowned.
Cruz took the opportunity to say that his father “came legally from Cuba.” It’s actually a very complicated story, but the important thing was that Cruz got to mention his immigrant parent. It is a rule in these debates that everybody who is not Jeb Bush or Donald Trump tries to sneak in some detail about humble origins. Kasich’s grandfather had black lung disease! And really, there should be a drinking game in which everybody takes a swig each time Rubio says: “My father was a bartender. My mother was a maid.”
Trump and Bush tangled over American involvement in the Middle East. Trump quoted an unnamed general, who said: “You know, Mr. Trump? We’re giving hundreds of millions of dollars of equipment to these people, we have no idea who they are.” Notice that in the Donald world, even generals call him “Mr. Trump.”
Meanwhile, Carson said America needed to make global jihadists “look like losers” by taking back a big oil field they control in Iraq. “We could do that, I believe, fairly easily. I’ve learned from talking to several generals, and then you move on from there.”
Who won? It’s hard to imagine voters who’ve stuck with Trump or Carson this long would be deterred by anything at this point. Many experts seem to think Cruz and Rubio did well, which I guess they did if you like illogical economic programs and totally terrifying views on foreign affairs. I guess Jeb felt encouraged. After the debate he emailed a request for another donation, to “keep the momentum going.”
First he compared Ben Carson to a “child molester” in a nationally televised interview. Then, at a campaign rally in Iowa, Donald J. Trump asked for someone to come try to stab him in the abdomen, twisting his own belt buckle as if to prove that Mr. Carson’s account of having knifed a friend, as a wild-tempered youth, had to have been a lie.
In the same speech — a 95-minute rant in Fort Dodge on Thursday night that left his listeners stunned into silence — Mr. Trump managed to insult a good portion of the electorate in Iowa, where Republicans will cast their ballots in 79 days, by saying voters there would be “stupid” to believe in Mr. Carson.
By Friday afternoon, when he posted a video mocking Mr. Carson as either a would-be killer or a pathological liar, the more pressing question seemed to concern Mr. Trump’s candidacy and whether he will ever be able to convert it from a personality-driven crowd attraction into a persuasive case for the presidency that can draw a bigger plurality of Republican primary voters.
The front-runner all summer, Mr. Trump has struggled to consistently crack through a ceiling in the Iowa polls of about 30 percent, in large part because of fierce recent competition from Mr. Carson, the mild-mannered retired neurosurgeon who has won a following with evangelical voters with his story of spiritual redemption. But now some Republicans believe that his scathing attacks on Mr. Carson — and voters who support him — will backfire. It raises the possibility that Mr. Trump’s seemingly sturdy floor of support in those polls could begin to give way, especially if more Republicans turn to more sober-minded candidates with military and national security experience following the terrorist attacks in Paris.
“How stupid are the people of Iowa? How stupid are the people of the country?” Mr. Trump said Thursday night, of voters who believe Mr. Carson’s story. “Don’t be fooled,” he said of Mr. Carson’s story of his decades-old religious awakening.
Dave Carney, a Republican political strategist who ran Rick Perry’s presidential race in 2012, speculated that the remarks could be deeply damaging.
“He’s walking on a tightrope,” Mr. Carney said of Mr. Trump. “He loves the applause of the crowd 100 stories down. But when you start to make fun of being born again and redemption and Christian faith in our party, you can talk yourself right off the tightrope.”
Mr. Carson, who came under scrutiny last week over whether he had embellished details of his background, including his story of having assaulted someone with a knife, declined to be baited into a fight on Friday, sidestepping what he called Mr. Trump’s “gratuitous attack” but saying he would not participate in the “politics of personal destruction.”
But one Republican contender who has tangled with Mr. Trump, Carly Fiorina, rose to Mr. Carson’s defense. “All the money in the world won’t make you as smart as Ben Carson,” Mrs. Fiorina wrote in a post on Facebook.
Mr. Trump has survived — even thrived — after the sort of verbal recklessness that would have doomed other candidates: his characterization of Mexican illegal immigrants as rapists and drug dealers, his denigration of Senator John McCain’s years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, and his derogatory comments about Mrs. Fiorina, as well as Megyn Kelly of Fox News and other women.
But some Republicans said that Mr. Trump’s 24-hour spree of over-the-top effrontery could at last signal his eventual derailment, given that it exacerbated long-held questions about his temperament and unstatesmanlike style.
“Trump’s attacks on Carson could be the hole in the dike,” said Edward Rollins, a veteran Republican consultant, referring to Mr. Trump’s core of supporters. “Many Republicans didn’t like McCain. It was also early in the campaign and many were viewing Trump as a protest candidate. Now he is viewed as a front-runner and potential nominee. To attack Carson yesterday as viciously as he did may make voters take a second look.”
Several pollsters said Mr. Trump’s remarks had created the most potentially damaging moment of his campaign. But they were unsure how many die-hard Trump supporters would stick with him no matter what he says.
“Trump has had what looks like a hard floor of support in Iowa — at least 20 percent — but a hard floor one day may not be a hard floor a week later if the candidate has not created a bond with voters” through advertising as well as speeches and debate performances, said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Poll. “This is perhaps the strongest language that Trump has used to date, and we’ll soon see if voters accept it.”
Ed Goeas a longtime Republican pollster, said the biggest problem for Mr. Trump may be the use of the word “stupid.” Voters may forgive many things, like insulting Mexicans and Mr. McCain, he said, but they do not like being called dumb.
“That’s not the way to endear himself to Iowans, the very voters who he is trying to pull away from Carson with these attacks,” said Mr. Goeas, who previously advised a former Republican presidential candidate, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin. “For the first time in this campaign, I feel like this might be the moment that Trump needs to apologize for something.”
Matt Moore, chairman of the South Carolina Republican Party, which holds the first primary in the South in mid-February, said Mr. Trump risked turning off evangelical and conservative voters by attacking Mr. Carson, who enjoys wide respect from them.
“It will be impossible to win the Republican nomination, much less the White House, by slashing and burning down the field,” Mr. Moore said. “Politics is addition and multiplication, not division and subtraction. It’s simple math.”
For that math to work in Mr. Trump’s favor, he needs to start spending money to build a serious political operation in multiple states, Republicans said, as well as on political advertising so voters can see different facets of him. Candidates do not win by simply trusting that voters will read about their speeches on social media or in newspapers, or catch snippets of their remarks on television, Republicans said. Such connections are impersonal and less effective than broadcasting positive commercials and meeting voters at scores of small-scale events where they can get a feel for candidates.
That is the decision Mr. Trump faces: how to grow a candidacy that has been nurtured on bombast, but deprived of spending. His aides continue to promise that he will soon buy television ads, but none have materialized.
Still, John McLaughlin, a Republican pollster who briefly advised Mr. Trump in 2012 when he considered a presidential run, said Mr. Trump remained “the best vessel for voters who are deeply frustrated with politics.”
“He can say these things and get away with it because the race really isn’t about him, but about voter anger at Washington and President Obama and also at Republicans who can’t get things done,” Mr. McLaughlin said.
“Trump is acting from his gut with these attacks,” Mr. McLaughlin added, and his instincts have served him well so far. “His gut is, he needs to take Carson on.”
The morning after the Islamic State attacks on Paris, Donald Trump approvingly retweeted the words of one of his supporters: “THE WORLD IS PLAYING EVERYTHING RIGHT FOR TRUMP! EVERY DAY HIS POINTS ARE PROVEN.”
Long before the destruction and death in France last week, Trump’s presidential campaign was following the path of right-wing working class parties in Europe. Over the past decade, these parties have capitalized on animosity to immigration and the perceived threat it presents to Europe’s “autonomy, sovereignty and territorial integrity,” its “postwar economic model,” and its “Christian identity.” This movement appears to be growing in power, and the violence in Paris certainly won’t diminish its strength.
Just as the “disaffected, lower educated/working-class native folks” in Europe “are fueling the rise of the Front National, UKIP and other parties,” similar constituencies are drawn to the Trump campaign in the United States, according to Ivo Daalder, president of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, a foreign policy think tank:
The terrorist attacks in Paris will deepen the loyalty of voters like this to Trump. Already, there are clear signs that the violence in France has provoked renewed anti-immigrant sentiment in this country, especially toward refugees from Syria.
The ascendance of European far-right parties over the past decade has laid out a tempting path for Trump. The parallels between Trump’s brand of American right populism and European working-class conservatism are striking.
First, both movements demonize immigrants in language that even traditional politicians who share their views ordinarily reject.
“Without any action, this migratory influx will be like the barbarian invasion of the fourth century, and the consequences will be the same,” Marine Le Pen, president of the National Front in France, declared at a September rally in a suburb of Paris.
“The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems,” Trump declared on June 15. “They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists.”
Trump and much of the anti-immigrant European right support domestic social programs that provide universal benefits — benefits like Medicare and Social Security, available equally to all citizens, regardless of income or economic status. This separates right populism from fiscal conservatism, which calls for paring back or privatizing services, or means testing eligibility for them.
While Trump is sharply critical of means-tested programs for the poor — “That’s what I find so morally offensive about welfare dependency: it robs people of the chance to improve” — he remains a staunch defender of Social Security and Medicare. Trump told a Republican gathering in New Hampshire on April 18:
In Europe, many right-wing parties have adopted a strategy that has come to be known as welfare chauvinism: support for boosting welfare state benefits for native-born citizens, combined with restrictions on the use of social insurance programs by immigrants.
The economic policy of the British UKIP Party, for example, is in some sense more liberal than the platform of the Democratic Party here. It calls for an additional £12 billion for the National Health Service and £6.7 billion more for “social care” and mental health services. At the same time, however, UKIP’s platform states that
Trump shares with the European right a tendency to portray conflict as a struggle between the weak and the strong, them and us.
“Most Western leaders are very weak,” Geert Wilders, the founder of the Dutch Party for Freedom, announced in April to the congressional Conservative Opportunity Society in Washington.
After recent elections, Morten Messerschmidt, a leader of the Danish People’s Party, called Helle Thorning-Schmidt “beyond compare the weakest prime minster we’ve ever had” after Thorning-Schmidt was ousted as prime minister of the ruling center-left government on June 18.
Trump loves to use the word weak in reference to his adversaries. Just this year, Trump has described Marco Rubio as “weak like a baby” and Jeb Bush as “weak on immigration”; he has said Bernie Sanders “showed such weakness” in dealing with Black Lives Matter activists; dismissed Ben Carson as “very, very weak on immigration;” and called Martin O’Malley a “disgusting little weak pathetic baby.”
Perhaps most intriguing, Trump shares with many leaders of the European right — including officials of Austria’s Freedom Party, the Dutch Freedom Party and the National Front — an admiration for the hard-line leadership of Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president.
“Putin is now taking over what we started, and he’s going into Syria, and he frankly wants to fight ISIS, and I think that’s a wonderful thing,” Trump told Fox News on Sept. 29. “In terms of leadership, he is getting an ‘A’.”
While most leaders of right populist parties abroad have been ideologically consistent over the years, Trump has been wildly inconsistent, casting doubt on the depth of his convictions on issues from abortion to guns to health care.
In 1999, he declared “I am very pro-choice.” In January this year, he said, “I’m pro-life and I have been pro-life.” Trump switched his party registration from Republican to independent in 1999, then to Democrat in 2001 and back to Republican in 2009.
In 1999, Trump boasted that he was “very liberal when it comes to health care;” in June, he said the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare, is “a disaster called the big lie.”
In the case of guns, in 2000 Trump affirmed his support of an assault weapons ban, but in 2015 he promised that as president he would guarantee that “the Second Amendment will be totally protected.”
In an effort to place Trump in an international perspective, I asked Herbert Kitschelt, a professor of international relations at Duke, for a more encompassing view of Trump:
Kitschelt added, however, that he associated Trump most closely with Silvio Berlusconi, the former prime minister of Italy:
Right behind Berlusconi, “I probably would nominate Vladimir Putin,” Kitschelt said.
Daniel Ziblatt, a professor of government at Harvard, also mentioned Berlusconi:
Asked to name comparable figures in conservative populist movements, Norm Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute also cited Perón, among others:
At the moment, according to data compiled by RealClearPolitics, Trump holds a one point lead among Republicans nationally, 24.3 to 23.3, over Ben Carson.
Robert Ford, a senior lecturer in politics at the University of Manchester in England, noted in an email that:
As Trump has maintained his lead, the fear that he could win has grown among establishment Republican leaders.
What happens if he does?
Three months ago, Alex Castellanos, a Republican media consultant, wrote on CNN’s website that the “failure of Republican leadership to do more than say ‘no’ ” had “opened the door to Donald Trump’s ascension.” Despite Trump’s rise in the polls, Castellanos did not believe he could win the nomination.
More recently, Castellanos wrote: “Unhappily, I’ve changed my mind.” After noting Trump’s earlier drop in the polls, from Sept. 19 to mid-October, Castellanos argued that since then Republican voters had
In a prescient Aug. 21 article widely circulated on the right, “Are Republicans for Freedom or White Identity Politics?” Ben Domenech, publisher of The Federalist, an innovative conservative website, warned that the Trump campaign had the potential to transform the Republican Party, from “a coalition that is broad, classically liberal, and consistent with the party’s history” to “a coalition that is reduced to the narrow interests of identity politics for white people.”
Evan Osnos, in an Aug. 31 New Yorker article, “The Fearful and the Frustrated,” captures the almost accidental way Trump discovered how to mobilize a segment of the Republican electorate.
Richard Spencer, a promoter of “white racial consciousness” and president of the National Policy Institute, told Osnos that he did not believe “Trump is a white nationalist,” but that he reflects
Jared Taylor, a white “racialist,” told Osnos that Trump
There is no doubt that Trump is a gifted opportunist in the way that the best salesmen and politicians usually are. He has shown a profound ability to grasp the professed needs and (partially) hidden desires of his audience — in this case angry white voters, some of whom may not have been fully conscious of the us-versus-them agenda underlying their politics until Trump gave them voice. By now, though, they know what he means when he says he wants to “make America great again” and they like what they hear.
Attachment trumps hunger in some wild birds, a new study reports. Researchers at Oxford University devised a clever way to prevent mated pairs of great tits from dining simultaneously: birds were fitted with radio tags linked to feeding stations and were not allowed to access a station if their mates were eating at it. Instead of foraging elsewhere, the researchers found, the excluded birds stuck close to their feeding partners. The study was published in the journal Current Biology.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Mali, a former French colony in West Africa, was shaken by a terrorist attack exactly a week after the Paris massacres. Gunmen shouting “Allahu akbar” stormed a Radisson Blu hotel popular with tourists in the capital. More than 25 people, including an American, were killed before security forces regained control.
_______
2. A French official said Mokhtar Belmokhtar, a Qaeda member France helped oust from Mali three years ago, was likely behind the attack. There was speculation that his group was playing out a rivalry with the Islamic State, which orchestrated the Paris attacks. “No one, nowhere, is safe given the danger of terrorism,” Mali’s president said.
_______
3. New evidence suggested that the suspected planner of the Paris attacks may have also taken part in them. Abdelhamid Abaaoud reportedly appeared on a surveillance video that night at a Métro station near the spot where the men who attacked four restaurants left their car. And a third body was found at the building just outside Paris where Mr. Abaaoud was killed in a gun battle, above.
_______
4. Jonathan Pollard, a former Navy intelligence analyst convicted of spying for Israel, was released after serving 30 years in prison. The release eases but does not eliminate one strain in Israeli-U.S. relations. The U.S. has declined to waive parole requirements to grant Mr. Pollard and Israel his wish to move there. He plans to live in New York City.
_______
5. Adele’s “25” rolled out worldwide, accompanied by expectations of monster sales — minus streaming services. The singer is out and about to promote the album (including “Saturday Night Live” this weekend) and flexing fashion muscles that had our fashion critic wondering: “Could Adele single-handedly bring back clothes? What a radical idea.”
_______
6. The political divide over U.S. security grew after Donald Trump — leading a Republican tilt sharply right — said he would “absolutely” require Muslims to register with the government. Democrats and some Republicans denounced him.
_______
7. Activists in Minneapolis pressured the police and city leaders all week for a fuller accounting of the death of a 24-year-old black man, who some witnesses said was already handcuffed when he was shot. On Wednesday, a Minneapolis officer trained a gun on the son of a congressman, above, during a confrontation with protesters that lasted hours.
_______
8. A Manhattan dentist, John Wolf, was arrested and accused of trading dental work for meth and possessing images of infants and toddlers being raped. “Drug investigations have taken us down dark roads before, but nothing darker than the office practices of Dr. Wolf,” a D.E.A. agent said. The complaint says his malevolence went beyond the office, saying he had punctured holes in condoms to spread H.I.V. to his sexual partners.
_______
9. A Mississippi State House race tied at 4,589 votes was decided the (very) old-fashioned way. The Democratic incumbent, Blaine Eaton II, held onto his seat after meeting his Republican challenger, Mark Tullos, in the state capital to draw straws. Above, Mr. Eaton’s green winner (and its reflection on its shiny silver box).
_______
10. This 96-year-old, Norway’s most decorated World War II hero, helped destroy a plant that was the Nazis’ only source of a crucial ingredient for a hoped-for nuclear bomb. He told one of our reporters that the heavy-duty metal cutters he happened to buy in England before parachuting into Norway on his mission allowed him to quietly slice through the plant’s heavy padlock.
_______
11. Watch: The Leonid meteor showers left a calling card on a Cincinnati man’s motion-activated camera. Dozens of people called in reports of the fireball, but he caught it after the fact. “When I saw this, I pulled it off of the DVR and saved it to my computer,” he wrote to a local news station. “I wish I would have been outside to see it!”
Have a great weekend. 
Video produced by Sofia Perpetua.
_______
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s Evening Briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Donald J. Trump tore into Mayor Bill de Blasio on Twitter on Friday, accusing New York City’s top elected official of “ineptitude” and calling him “the worst Mayor in the U.S., & probably the worst Mayor in the history of #NYC.”
What took him so long?
Mr. Trump — the real estate mogul and Republican presidential candidate given to dismissing his critics as cowards, liars or worse — has, it turns out, mostly held his tongue about Mr. de Blasio, a liberal Democrat and seemingly ripe target who resides two and a half miles from Trump Tower.
The rebuke on Friday came after Mr. de Blasio, in a radio interview, called Mr. Trump a “blowhard” for supporting police surveillance of mosques. 
Mr. Trump, as he often does, responded with  a post on Twitter that, three hours later, had been retweeted nearly 1,300 times: “@BilldeBlasio should focus on running #NYC & all of the problems that he has caused with his ineptitude, & not be so focused on me!”
Before that, there was little record of Mr. Trump, a connoisseur of the insult, directing his venom toward the mayor. In fact, in 2013, he predicted that Mr. de Blasio would “end up being a good mayor, maybe a very good mayor.”
This summer, when Mr. de Blasio criticized Mr. Trump’s stance on immigration, and threatened to review the city’s contracts with his affiliated companies, Mr. Trump responded rather formally, with a sternly worded letter to city officials. It was notably lacking in insults.
Some in political circles speculated on Friday that Mr. Trump, as a force in the city’s real estate industry, may have been reluctant to cross a man whose administration is his primary regulator.
“He needs the Buildings Department, he needs the Fire Department, he needs various agencies to approve whatever project he has,” George Arzt, a longtime political consultant, said. “I wouldn’t want to make fun of the mayor for that reason if I was a developer.”
While Mr. Trump’s name is a fixture of the skyline, his personal portfolio in New York is small. Privately, real estate executives said on Friday that he might have been motivated by a desire to protect the interests of his son-in-law, Jared C. Kushner, who is pursuing numerous projects around the city.
Asked about Mr. Trump’s remarks, a spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said only that they were in response to Mr. de Blasio’s radio comments.
The mayor, for his part, has gleefully criticized prominent Republicans in recent days. He singled out Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey for his views on Syrian refugees, saying the governor was acting “un-American.” On Friday, referring to the terrorist group that staged the deadly attacks in Paris last week, Mr. de Blasio said that Mr. Trump was “saying things that, bluntly, play right into ISIS’ hands.”
Roger J. Stone Jr., a Republican consultant and former adviser to Mr. Trump, said he was surprised by the developer’s comments.
“Can’t imagine why Trump would attack de Blasio,” Mr. Stone wrote in an email. “De Blasio not well known (and therefore not yet hated) around the country.”
Under assault from Democrats and Republicans alike, Donald J. Trump on Friday drew back from his call for a mandatory registry of Muslims in the United States, trying to quell one of the ugliest controversies yet in a presidential campaign like few others.
The daylong furor capped a week of one-upmanship among Republican presidential candidates as to who could sound toughest about preventing terrorism after the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris. Polls show the national mood has soured on accepting refugees from Syria amid concerns about potential terrorist attacks within the United States.
Mr. Trump’s talk of a national database of Muslims, first in an interview published on Thursday by Yahoo News  and later in an exchange with an NBC News reporter, seemed the culmination of months of heated debate about illegal immigration as an urgent danger to Americans’ personal safety. 
It came as Mr. Trump has regained some momentum in the Republican presidential race, with polls showing his support on the rise nationally since the Paris attacks, and Ben Carson’s on the decline.
By Friday, though, he appeared to pull back slightly from the idea. In a post on Twitter, Mr. Trump complained that it was a reporter, not he, who had first raised the idea of a database. And his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, insisted that Mr. Trump had been asked leading questions by the NBC reporter under “blaring music” and that he had in mind a terrorist watch list, not a registry of Muslims.
Still, nowhere, even on Friday, did Mr. Trump, who has rarely acknowledged being at fault in a campaign predicated on his strength as a leader, clearly state that he was opposed to the idea of a registry of Muslims.
For months, Mr. Trump has set the tone and pace of the Republican primary, forcing his rivals to respond to his statements and in some cases to try to emulate his style and positions. His periodic eruptions have seemed to power his campaign; he has denigrated Senator John McCain’s record in Vietnam because he was a prisoner of war, said that the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly was bleeding from “wherever,” insulted Carly Fiorina’s looks and read Senator Lindsey Graham’s cellphone number aloud before a crowd of thousands. Through it all, his supporters have held firm.
Yet rivals who have been pulled sharply to the right by Mr. Trump on issues like immigration broke with him this time — a rare public distancing by politicians who have seemed handcuffed out of fear that swinging back at Mr. Trump would make them the butt of his next joke or offend his supporters.
In the Yahoo interview on Thursday, which came on the heels of his calls to close some mosques and carefully monitor others, Mr. Trump suggested, with few specifics, that he would impose new measures to deal with terrorism.
“We’re going to have to do things that we never did before. And some people are going to be upset about it, but I think that now everybody is feeling that security is going to rule,” he said. “And certain things will be done that we never thought would happen in this country in terms of information and learning about the enemy. And so we’re going to have to do certain things that were frankly unthinkable a year ago.”
Asked by the Yahoo reporter about the possibility of a database for Muslims or “a form of special identification that noted their religion,” Mr. Trump did not reject either idea. Later that day, as Mr. Trump left a campaign event in Iowa, an NBC reporter followed up. Asked if he would set up a database to track Muslims, Mr. Trump replied, “I would certainly implement that. Absolutely.”
Asked about the effect that would have, however, he replied, “It would stop people from coming in illegally” — perhaps suggesting that Mr. Trump, who has vowed to build a “beautiful” wall along the Mexican border, was not focused on the question.
And when the NBC reporter approached Mr. Trump a second time and asked about the difference between registering Muslims and what happened to Jews in Nazi Germany, Mr. Trump grew impatient: “You tell me,” he said.
Mr. Trump’s remarks took hours to circulate widely over social media. But his seemingly serious consideration for the idea of treating an entire religious group with suspicion created the risk of a new set of problems for a Republican Party already struggling to appeal beyond its largely white political base. The party has also spent years objecting to what Republicans call government overreach by President Obama.
By Friday morning, many Democrats, some Republicans and a cross-section of religious leaders were denouncing Mr. Trump’s remarks.
Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida, responded on CNBC by saying, “You talk about closing mosques, you talk about registering people — that’s just wrong.”
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who is campaigning on a platform in which “religious freedom” plays a major part but is also seeking to inherit Mr. Trump’s supporters should his campaign falter, hit on a gentler way of dissociating himself from the idea. “I’m a big fan of Donald Trump’s, but I’m not a fan of government registries,” he said in Sioux City, Iowa.
But Mr. Cruz also accused the news media of trying to divide the Republican Party, in effect siding with Mr. Trump against a common enemy.
“I recognize that the media would love to get me and other candidates to attack Donald Trump,” Mr. Cruz said. “There may be other candidates who want to do that. I ain’t gonna do it.”
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who has gained some traction by virtually camping out in New Hampshire, belittled Mr. Trump without naming him. “The indiscriminate closing of mosques or the establishment of a national registry based on religion will do nothing to keep us safer and shows a lack of understanding on how to effectively prevent terrorist attacks,” he said in a statement.
Mr. Trump’s remarks drew condemnation not only from American Muslims but also from Christian, Jewish and interfaith leaders.
“We had expected a rise in Islamophobic rhetoric during the election cycle, but we never thought it would hark back to the rhetoric of the 1930s,” said Ibrahim Hooper, the communications director for the Council on American-Islamic Relations.
Russell D. Moore, the president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, said, “I do think it’s scary when we have candidates talking about shutting down houses of worship, about having badges for religious groups. That ought to alarm every American.” 
Ari Fleischer, the former press secretary under President George W. Bush and a board member of the Republican Jewish Coalition, criticized Mr. Trump’s remarks as intolerable. But he also said that, while some have believed that Mr. Trump’s supporters would gravitate toward more serious-minded candidates after the Paris attacks, he anticipated the opposite.
“People rally to strength,” Mr. Fleischer said.
Donald J. Trump said Saturday that he would order surveillance of “certain mosques” to combat terrorism after the Paris attacks and claimed to have watched as “thousands and thousands of people were cheering” while the World Trade Center towers fell on Sept. 11, 2001. 
In a rally at the Birmingham-Jefferson Convention Complex in Birmingham, Ala., Mr. Trump, who is seeking the Republican presidential nomination, dismissed accounts of his apparent support for creating a registry of Muslims in the United States as an effort by the news media to entrap him. He then seemed to clarify that idea on Saturday, saying he wanted a database of refugees entering the country from Syria and adding, to cheers, “I want surveillance of certain mosques, O.K.?” 
“We’ve had it before and we’ll have it again,” he added. Mr. Trump has recently spoken of the New York Police Department’s use of informants in mosques after the Sept. 11 attacks.
It is unclear whether a database of Syrian refugees would be markedly different from the records already being kept in screening by federal agencies. But Mr. Trump, the leading Republican candidate in some polls, has been perhaps the most strident of all the contenders on the issue of whether to accept refugees after the Paris attacks, raising the possibility that some extremists could slip in among them and telling the crowd Saturday that should he win the presidency, the refugees are “going back, we can’t have them.” 
Earlier this year, Mr. Trump said that accepting a limited number of refugees from Syria was a humanitarian decision. 
Perhaps the most striking comment of the day was his recounting of the Sept. 11 attacks as he talked about the security landscape since the Paris massacre:
“Hey, I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down. And I watched in Jersey City, New Jersey, where thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering. So something’s going on. We’ve got to find out what it is.” 
It was not clear what Mr. Trump was referring to. There were cheers of support in some Middle Eastern countries that day, which were broadcast on television. But a persistent Internet rumor of Muslims celebrating in Paterson, N.J., was discounted by police officials at the time. A search of news accounts from that period shows no reports of mass cheering in Jersey City. 
Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said the response of Muslim-Americans on Sept. 11 was disgust.
“I know because I wrote it,” he said of the council’s reaction, adding that if Mr. Trump had evidence of cheering, he should present it.
Hope Hicks, a spokeswoman for Mr. Trump, would not elaborate on his comments; his aides have repeatedly declined to make him available to address the controversies over some of his statements. Ms. Hicks said only that Mr. Trump had drawn an “unprecedented” crowd of 10,000 in Birmingham, adding, “Mr. Trump’s speech was great and unbelievably well received.”
Since the Nov. 13 attacks in Paris by Islamic extremists, which killed 130 people, the national mood has turned against admitting refugees from Syria, where the Islamic State has taken control of certain areas, a poll by Bloomberg Politics showed last week. And Mr. Trump has been riding a wave of anger and mistrust of government and politicians since he entered the race in June. 
Mr. Trump’s calls for surveillance came after he said earlier in the week that he supported closing some mosques. He has not been alone in making such calls; a top donor to Hillary Rodham Clinton also urged such surveillance in the wake of the Paris attacks. The donor, Haim Saban, later said he had misspoken. 
The rest of Saturday’s speech was a classic Trump performance, a crowd-pleasing stream of boasts, humor and mockery. Referring to George E. Pataki, the former New York governor who has been lagging badly in polls and was one of several opponents to seek airtime from NBC after Mr. Trump hosted the network’s “Saturday Night Live,” he said: “They could give him 12 ‘Saturday Night Lives,’ an hour and a half a night — not going to have any impact.” 
At one point during the rally, a protester whom Mr. Trump called to have ejected — “Get him the hell out of here,” he ordered security guards — was punched and kicked by some attendees, CNN reported. 
The protester, who wore a shirt saying “Black Lives Matter” and refused to leave the rally, was hit by roughly a half-dozen attendees, CNN said. The police told the network that the man had not required medical attention.
Ms. Hicks did not respond to an email asking about the removal of the protester.
To the Editor:
Re “Bill to Restrict Syrians in U.S. Passes in House” (front page, Nov. 20):
The xenophobic backlash against Syrian refugees defies both morality and logic. Have we not learned from our misguided policies of the past, including internment during World War II of Japanese-Americans for fear that they were not loyal citizens, or turning away Jewish refugees?
The Syrian refugees are fleeing violence, trauma and horrific human rights abuses. They are victims of terror, not terrorists. Lest we forget that we are a nation of immigrants, the Syrian refugees deserve our compassion, not our fear.
Before being resettled, refugees are already thoroughly scrutinized. While no background checks are perfect, if only our politicians showed the same zeal and less political pandering for strengthened gun control, then we really might promote national security.
ALLEN S. KELLER
New York
The writer, an associate professor at the N.Y.U. School of Medicine, is director of the Bellevue-N.Y.U. Program for Survivors of Torture.
To the Editor:
Re “Donald Trump Again Insists He Saw Celebrations in New Jersey on Sept. 11” (First Draft, nytimes.com, Nov. 22):
Every morning now, I see a news item quoting leading candidates for president of this country I live in and love, and I think that I am living a nightmare.
Where are the denunciations by millions of Americans to this frightening incitement to hate? What does this fear of disagreeing with those statements mean?
This must not be allowed to continue and fester.
Someone among the grown-ups has to denounce it before we are swept into a dystopia beyond my imagination.
I am really frightened by the future that we are creating. 
RITA LASAR

New York
The writer, whose brother died in the World Trade Center, is a co-founder of September 11th Families for Peaceful Tomorrows. 
America has just lived through another presidential campaign week dominated by Donald Trump’s racist lies. Here’s a partial list of false statements: The United States is about to take in 250,000 Syrian refugees; African-Americans are responsible for most white homicides; and during the 9/11 attacks, “thousands and thousands” of people in an unnamed “Arab” community in New Jersey “were cheering as that building was coming down.”
In the Republican field, Mr. Trump has distinguished himself as fastest to dive to the bottom. If it’s a lie too vile to utter aloud, count on Mr. Trump to say it, often. It wins him airtime, and retweets through the roof.
This phenomenon is in fact nothing new. Politicians targeting minorities, foreigners or women have always existed in the culture. And every generation or so, at least one demagogue surfaces to fan those flames.
Here’s Donald Trump on Sunday: “When the Syrian refugees are going to start pouring into this country, we don’t know if they’re ISIS, we don’t know if it’s a Trojan horse. And I definitely want a database and other checks and balances. We want to go with watch lists. We want to go with databases. And we have no choice. We have no idea who’s being sent in here. This could be the — it’s probably not, but it could be the great Trojan horse of all time, where they come in.”
Here’s Joseph McCarthy in 1950: “Today we are engaged in a final, all-out battle between communistic atheism and Christianity. The modern champions of communism have selected this as the time, and ladies and gentlemen, the chips are down — they are truly down.”
Here’s Donald Trump last Tuesday: “We’re going to have to do things that we never did before. And some people are going to be upset about it, but I think that now everybody is feeling that security is going to rule. And certain things will be done that we never thought would happen in this country in terms of information and learning about the enemy. And so we’re going to have to do certain things that were frankly unthinkable a year ago.”
Here’s George Wallace in 1963: “We must redefine our heritage, re-school our thoughts in the lessons our forefathers knew so well, in order to function and to grow and to prosper. We can no longer hide our head in the sand and tell ourselves that the ideology of our free fathers is not being attacked and is not being threatened by another idea ... for it is.”
Mr. Trump relies on social media to spread his views. This is convenient because there’s no need to respond to questions about his fabrications. That makes it imperative that other forms of media challenge him.
Instead, as Mr. Trump stays at the top of the Republican field, it’s become a full-time job just running down falsehoods like the phony crime statistics he tweeted, which came from a white supremacist group.
Yet Mr. Trump is regularly rewarded with free TV time, where he talks right over anyone challenging him, and doubles down when called out on his lies.
This isn’t about shutting off Mr. Trump’s bullhorn. His right to spew nonsense is protected by the Constitution, but the public doesn’t need to swallow it. History teaches that failing to hold a demagogue to account is a dangerous act. It’s no easy task for journalists to interrupt Mr. Trump with the facts, but it’s an important one.
Here are some of Donald J. Trump’s favorite ways to deal with a difficult question:
Asked what he would do on issues like trade deals or terrorism, he warns that bad things are happening “all over the place.” His policies as president might or might not include the subject at hand “and a lot of different things.” All ethnic groups will “love” a Trump presidency.
Here is what you may almost never hear Mr. Trump say: “I’m not familiar with that,” or “I misspoke.”
No one ever expected Mr. Trump to turn himself into the issues expert of the Republican presidential field. Yet the verbal shortcuts and salesmanlike stretches that he has relied on for months — generalities used to dodge questions, and questionable recollections — are tripping him up as the tenor of the campaign has grown more serious.
Mr. Trump’s avoidance of specifics is seen by some of his admirers as a refreshing contrast to musty politicians who play by the rules. And he has a knack for muddying the waters with catchall phrases that allow his supporters and detractors to read whatever they want into his statements.
But his refusal to be pinned down on the details of his positions has repeatedly prompted reporters and interviewers to engage in a guessing game as to what he means. And he tends to choose all of the above.
“Trump has an amazing ability to backtrack without incurring any political harm from doing so,” said Rich Lowry, the editor of National Review. “His supporters don’t seem to care very much about consistency from one interview or statement to the next, as long as he’s always projecting strength.”
Jeff Shesol, a speechwriter for President Bill Clinton, pointed to what he called Mr. Trump’s “unshakable sense of self-confidence,” adding: “He’s asking you to just trust him with that.”
When Mr. Trump told a Yahoo News reporter on Thursday that steps would have to be taken to monitor American Muslims “that were frankly unthinkable a year ago,” the reporter asked if that might include registering Muslims in a database or requiring them to carry a special form of identification. Mr. Trump did not rule out either. “We’re going to have to look at a lot of things very closely,” he said.
And on Sunday, when ABC’s George Stephanopoulos tried to flesh out what Mr. Trump had meant by “unthinkable” policies, he asked Mr. Trump if waterboarding was one of them. It took two tries before he gave a direct answer. “I would bring it back, yes,” Mr. Trump said.
Even when he reverses course, he often manages to do it in such a way that his supporters rally behind him.
When Joe Scarborough of MSNBC, three days after the terrorist attacks in Paris, asked Mr. Trump if he would consider closing mosques, Mr. Trump seemed to treat it quite seriously. “I would hate to do it, but it would be something that you’re going to have to strongly consider,” he said.
In the next breath, though, Mr. Trump seemed to click undo: “It’s something that many people — not me, but many people — are considering and many people are going to do,” he said.
Not all the land mines Mr. Trump has stepped on lately were placed by journalists.
At a rally in Alabama on Saturday, Mr. Trump claimed that he “watched in Jersey City, N.J., where thousands and thousands of people were cheering” as the World Trade Center fell on Sept. 11, 2001. He repeated the claim to Mr. Stephanopoulos on Sunday. But it was false, as fact-checkers at The New York Times and other organizations have since reported.
Mr. Trump did not budge, however. Instead, he pointed on Monday to a 2001 Washington Post article that said “a number of people” in Jersey City were detained and questioned for “allegedly” celebrating on their rooftops.
“I want an apology! Many people have tweeted that I am right!” he wrote on Twitter. (On Monday evening, the NBC reporter Katy Tur said Mr. Trump had called her to say he has “the world’s best memory.”)
Terrorism has not been the only trouble spot in recent days. On Monday night, in an interview with Mr. Trump, the Fox News host Bill O’Reilly chastised him for a Twitter message that contained false statistics claiming that black-on-white murders are much higher than they are.
“Don’t put your name on stuff like this,” Mr. O’Reilly said.
“I didn’t tweet; I retweeted somebody that supposedly was an expert,” Mr. Trump said.
Through it all, Mr. Trump has never apologized or acknowledged a mistake. Someone else is almost always to blame; in the case of the Muslim registry flap, Mr. Trump faulted the reporter who first asked him about the idea. And Mr. Trump’s supporters seem content to take his word for it.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump declined to comment for this article.
Politicians are not known for adhering to the facts with laser precision at all times. But Mr. Trump has shown that this year, voters care less than they ever did.
“The electorate, at least the Republican electorate, is a little skeptical of specificity this year,” said Matt Latimer, a speechwriter for President George W. Bush and a partner in the Washington communications firm Javelin. Voters are weary of unfulfilled promises from politicians, he said. “What they’re looking for is attitude and tone.”
There is a distant echo of Barry Goldwater, whose 1964 presidential campaign helped bring about the conservative revolution in the Republican Party. Mr. Trump’s supporters often say he gives voice to things that no one else will say; Goldwater’s slogan in 1964 was “In your heart, you know he’s right.”
Yet Goldwater had been elected to office before, despite views that were seen as radical at the time.
“This is Trump’s first go, and he seems — judging by the polls, he’s succeeding on his own terms,” Mr. Shesol said. “It’s sort of maddening and mystifying to the rest of us.”
STERLING, Va. — When Donald J. Trump bought a fixer-upper golf club on Lowes Island here for $13 million in 2009, he poured millions more into reconfiguring its two courses. He angered conservationists by chopping down more than 400 trees to open up views of the Potomac River. And he shocked no one by renaming the club after himself.
But that wasn’t enough. Mr. Trump also upgraded its place in history.
Between the 14th hole and the 15th tee of one of the club’s two courses, Mr. Trump installed a flagpole on a stone pedestal overlooking the Potomac, to which he affixed a plaque purportedly designating “The River of Blood.”
“Many great American soldiers, both of the North and South, died at this spot,” the inscription reads. “The casualties were so great that the water would turn red and thus became known as ‘The River of Blood.’ ”
The inscription, beneath his family crest and above Mr. Trump’s full name, concludes: “It is my great honor to have preserved this important section of the Potomac River!”
Like many of Mr. Trump’s claims, the inscription was evidently not fact-checked.
“No. Uh-uh. No way. Nothing like that ever happened there,” said Richard Gillespie, the executive director of the Mosby Heritage Area Association, a historical preservation and education group devoted to an 1,800-square-mile section of the Northern Virginia Piedmont, including the Lowes Island site.
“The only thing that was remotely close to that,” Mr. Gillespie said, was 11 miles up the river at the Battle of Ball’s Bluff in 1861, a rout of Union forces in which several hundred were killed. “The River of Blood?” he added. “Nope, not there.”
Mr. Gillespie’s contradiction of the plaque’s account was seconded by Alana Blumenthal, the curator of the Loudoun Museum in nearby Leesburg. (A third local expert, who said he had written to Mr. Trump’s company about the inscription’s falsehoods and offered to provide historically valid replacement text, insisted on anonymity because he did not want to cross the Trump Organization by disclosing a private exchange.)
In a phone interview, Mr. Trump called himself a “a big history fan” but deflected, played down and then simply disputed the local historians’ assertions of historical fact.
“That was a prime site for river crossings,” Mr. Trump said. “So, if people are crossing the river, and you happen to be in a civil war, I would say that people were shot — a lot of them.”
The club does indeed lie a stone’s throw from Rowser’s Ford, where, as an official historical marker notes, Gen. J. E. B. Stuart led 5,000 Confederate troops including cavalry across the Potomac en route to the Battle of Gettysburg.
But no one died in that crossing, historians said, or in any other notable Civil War engagement on the spot.
“How would they know that?” Mr. Trump asked when told that local historians had called his plaque a fiction. “Were they there?”
Mr. Trump repeatedly said that “numerous historians” had told him that the golf club site was known as the River of Blood. But he said he did not remember their names.
Then he said the historians had spoken not to him but to “my people.” But he refused to identify any underlings who might still possess the historians’ names.
“Write your story the way you want to write it,” Mr. Trump said finally, when pressed unsuccessfully for anything that could corroborate his claim. “You don’t have to talk to anybody. It doesn’t make any difference. But many people were shot. It makes sense.”
In its small way, the plaque bears out Mr. Trump’s reputation for being preoccupied with grandeur, superlatives and his own name, but less so with verifiable facts, even when his audience is relatively small.
Members of what he renamed the Trump National Golf Club, and some former employees, said the plaque generally drew laughter or eye-rolls, much as when Mr. Trump periodically descends from his helicopter to walk one course or the other.
One member, a former history professor and a co-author of four Civil War novels, called the monument merely “strange.”
Much more important, he said, were the much-needed renovations Mr. Trump made to the golf courses.
“I am not going to lead a demonstration over this,” said the member, Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker. “It’s a country club with a golf course, for Pete’s sake.”
How alarmed were New Jersey officials by reports of Muslims dancing in the streets of Jersey City and Paterson on Sept. 11, 2001, to celebrate the destruction of the World Trade Center?
They feared riots would break out and were ready to send in the National Guard and the State Police to preserve order.
But John J. Farmer Jr., then the New Jersey attorney general and the state’s chief law enforcement officer, said on Tuesday that he ordered an investigation that very day and found the reports to be bogus, more wild stories born in the stricken hours after the attacks.
Nevertheless, those ancient, false rumors were recycled as truth over the weekend by Donald J. Trump, who has folded them into his calls for the national registration of Muslims and possible closing of mosques. Speaking in Alabama, Mr. Trump said: “Hey, I watched when the World Trade Center came tumbling down. And I watched in Jersey City, N.J., where thousands and thousands of people were cheering as that building was coming down. Thousands of people were cheering.”
Reporters were unable to find any evidence for his story, but Mr. Trump stuck with it in a television interview on Sunday. “It did happen,” he said. “I saw it. It was on television.”
Few people, if any, could address the circumstances more definitively than Mr. Farmer, who went on to serve as senior counsel to the Sept. 11 commission.
In an account Mr. Farmer provided Tuesday, he described being in the state’s command center, in Liberty State Park in Jersey City, directly across the Hudson River from the burning wreckage of the trade center. The New Jersey State Police radio antenna had been on top of one of the towers, cutting off communications.
“We were forced to rely on runners for intelligence about what was happening across the river and in New Jersey,” Mr. Farmer said.
In the vacuum, rumors were flying, he said. Bombers with suicide vests were in Times Square. Saboteurs were lurking around power plants. New York City’s mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was missing.
And then there was the wisp of a story that Mr. Farmer said was most disturbing of all: “That Muslims were dancing on the rooftops and in the streets of Jersey City and Paterson.” 
Indeed, pockets of radical Islamists had set up in Jersey City in the past. The 1993 World Trade Center bombers rented a van and stored chemicals and fertilizers in that city.
Open jubilation at the mass death, Mr. Farmer said, might quickly be followed by rioting and more deaths. “If true, we would have had to mobilize the State Police and National Guard and locked the place down,” he said.
“We followed up on that report instantly because of its implications,” he added. “The word came back quickly from Jersey City, later from Paterson. False report. Never happened.”
Political campaigns are notorious for the damage they do to truth, but Mr. Trump’s presidential run has erased any lines that would segregate rumors, facts, mistakes and outright falsehoods. This month, he posted a graphic on Twitter that purported to show that 81 percent of white murder victims were killed by blacks; in fact, 82 percent of whites are murdered by whites.
Confronted by Bill O’Reilly, Mr. Trump essentially shrugged: “I retweeted somebody that was supposedly an expert, and it was also a radio show.” He has said, variously, that 200,000 or 250,000 Syrian refugees would be coming to the United States; the Obama administration’s actual goal for next year is 10,000, as FactCheck.org reported.
Indifferent as Mr. Trump is to facts, in retailing the myth of the dancing Muslims, he could not face a more sober and careful fact-finder than Mr. Farmer. 
Now a professor of law at Rutgers University, he led the Sept. 11 commission’s investigation of the disarray in the nation’s air defenses on that morning and exposed as fiction claims by the Pentagon that fighter pilots were in hot pursuit of the hijacked airliners. In fact, military officials did not know about three of the four hijacked planes until after they had already crashed. That became the subject of a book by Mr. Farmer, “The Ground Truth,” which was hailed by Jacob Heilbrunn in The New York Times as a “precise and reliable accounting of what happened.”
Mr. Farmer said isolating and stigmatizing Muslims now, whatever its short-term political appeal, would spawn more alienated Muslim youth and potential recruits for the Islamic State.
“Whatever the message, it is just plain wrong to cite thousands of Muslims dancing in Jersey City or Paterson on 9/11 as support,” Mr. Farmer said. “That simply never happened.”
COLUMBUS, Ohio — They looked as if they didn’t belong.
Seven students from Columbus Alternative High School filled a pocket of space in a cavernous hall of the city’s Convention Center on Monday night. They had come for a Donald J. Trump rally, but they looked as if they would be more at home at a casting call for the television show “Fame.” The group included a boy in skinny jeans who wore a wool hat and kept the fingernails on his right hand long and manicured, a girl with the sides of her head shaven, and two other girls wearing Marvel T-shirts and granny glasses.
They came to get extra credit for a history class. They were about to become part of the lesson.
Depending on which side of the Thanksgiving table one sits on, Mr. Trump’s run for the Republican presidential nomination is either the most refreshingly apolitical candidacy in ages or a steepening descent into unvarnished demagogy. 
And while Mr. Trump’s heated language on surveillance of Muslims, accepting Syrian refugees and illegal immigration is firing up his crowds, it is also drawing more protesters, resulting in physical clashes.
At recent Trump rallies, supporters have spit in protesters’ faces, tackled demonstrators in Miami, and shoved and punched a Black Lives Matter activist in Alabama. (“Maybe he should have been roughed up,” Mr. Trump said after the episode.) Mostly, he has embraced the scuffles as a new and action-packed dimension of the Donald Trump experience.
“Isn’t a Trump rally much more exciting than these other ones?” Mr. Trump asked as the police ejected a protester shouting “Trump’s a racist” from a rally in Worcester, Mass., last week. “That kind of stuff only adds to the excitement.”
The Columbus rally started mildly enough. The 10,000 or so Trump supporters streamed into the Convention Center, ignoring a demonstrator who held a sign that said “Hitler Trump for President” and who sarcastically cheered, “Vote racism again!” 
In a long line inside, many supporters perused a selection of “Make America Great” buttons and talked about their holiday plans and the weather. A woman in a “Tyranny Response Team” shirt smiled warmly at her son as he stood back to back with his grandmother to compare their heights. Old friends spotted one another and hugged.
As the crowd filled the hall, Steve Hopkins, from Waverly, Ohio, found a spot midway between the stage and the back wall. “You’re fine,” he said kindly to taller people who were obstructing the footage of the massive crowd that he was recording with his phone.
The whole rally had a family-friendly concert feel, with a sweet waft of cotton candy smell, thousands of smartphones raised like lighters and a singalong music playlist.
The high school students came in. A little bit immature and more than a little garrulous, they laid down their bags and at times lay down, appearing like a multiracial island in a sea of white faces.
As Mr. Trump’s advance team seated three black people with the Trump fans behind the stage, the students and the supporters around them sang along to “Skyfall” by Adele. When the chorus of “Hey Jude” played, Mr. Trump’s supporters lifted and swayed “The Silent Majority Stands With Trump” signs. A couple wearing American flag shirts embraced.
When “Rocket Man” came on, the students were joined by a college-age couple who introduced themselves and confided that they were there to do something, but would not say what.
As the songs began to repeat, the crowd grew restless, chanting “Trump, Trump, Trump” over the aria “Nessun Dorma.” When “Hey Jude” came on again, they booed.
Mr. Trump finally took the stage about half an hour later than expected, bathing in the adoration of a crowd that was a mix of exhausted, exhilarated and a little upset.
He began with an attack on a news media that has arguably fueled his success. “Look at all those cameras,” he said with disgust, gesturing at the media pen. (Lately, the journalists at Mr. Trump’s rallies, which are open to the public, have been strictly confined at the back of the room, but this reporter entered with and remained with the crowd.)
Mr. Trump’s supporters turned around and jeered at the cameras, some laughingly and some with vitriol in their eyes. “Boooooo,” said Mr. Hopkins, who stood near the students.
One of the high school girls turned to her friends and said of Mr. Trump, “I didn’t think he was real, y’all. I thought he was a hologram.”
To supporters seeing him up close, the Trump experience was very real. They locked eyes on him and nodded religiously when he talked about “anchor babies” cast by unauthorized immigrants, or the “animals and savages” perpetrating terrorism, or the “scum” on the streets. Guarded by a line of Secret Service agents under the stage, he made his fans howl with laughter and shake their heads in disgust at “stupid” leaders who use teleprompters. 
He even got them to mock their brethren who could not get into the hall. “You should have gotten here earlier,” Mr. Trump said to applause.
When he referred to the  man identified as the ringleader of the Paris attacks this month as “the guy with the dirty, filthy hat,” the crowd chuckled, but one of the high school girls, unexpectedly appalled, shouted, “You bastard,” before lowering her head.
When Mr. Trump said he would bring back waterboarding as an interrogation tactic against terrorism suspects, and added, “If it doesn’t work, they deserve it anyway,” an older couple behind the group of teenagers threw back their heads in utter delight.
“Amen,” the woman said.
“Oh, my God,” one of the high school girls said. Another covered her mouth in shock.
Then, when Mr. Trump began talking about surveillance of refugees, the college-age couple standing in front of the students began chanting, “Hating Muslims helps ISIS.” The students were caught off guard, but after a moment of uncertainty, some of them joined in.
Mr. Hopkins leaned over and screamed, “Shut up!”
Mr. Trump stopped his remarks and looked toward the commotion with disgust. “Two people, two people,” he said dismissively of the couple, as the crowd started booing and the people around them began shouting. “So sad,” Mr. Trump said. “Yeah, you can get ’em the hell out.”
The crowd erupted in triumph as the protesters and students turned to leave. “Get out of here!” Mr. Hopkins shouted, shoving one of the two protesters in the back on his way out.
One of the high school girls said afterward that as they exited, people in the crowd had asked them, “If you don’t love America, why don’t you just leave?” and that a man had told her that if she had not been filming on her phone, he would have slapped her. 
She and another student said they had heard an epithet for black people hurled their way.
After Mr. Trump wrapped up his speech and “We’re Not Gonna Take It” blasted on the speakers, Mr. Hopkins rushed to the stage to get a picture of Mr. Trump. 
Asked what he thought of the rally, he said: “It’s like a movement! And he’s a man of action.”
And the protesters? “Very rude.”
LESBOS, Greece — Ben Carson has compared Syrian refugees to rabid dogs. Donald Trump says that he would send them back.
Who are these Syrian refugee monsters who terrify American politicians?
Meet Heba, a frightened, desperate 20-year-old woman who dreams of being an artist and has just made a perilous escape from territory controlled by the Islamic State in northern Syria.
She was detained two months ago with her sister by Islamic State enforcers because her sister’s baby girl had too short a skirt — even though the baby was just 3 months old.
“That was crazy,” Heba said, shaking her head. “This was an infant!”
Heba says she and her sister argued that infant girls should have a little leeway in showing skin, and eventually the family was let off with a warning.
But Heba, strong-willed and self-confident, perhaps had been too outspoken or too sarcastic, and the police then cast a critical eye on her clothing. She was covering even her hands and face, but the authorities complained that her abaya cloak wasn’t loose enough to turn her into a black puff that concealed her form. The police detained her for hours until her family bailed her out by paying a $10 fine.
Heba was lucky, for other women have been flogged for violating clothing rules. Her sister saw a woman stoned to death after being accused of adultery.
“If I were wearing this,” Heba told me, pointing down at the tight jeans she was wearing as we spoke, “my head would come off.” She offered a hollow laugh.
I spoke to her after she left her mother and siblings behind in Syria (her father died years ago of natural causes) and fled with a handful of relatives on a perilous journey to Turkey, then on a dangerously overcrowded boat to this Greek island. I took Heba and her relatives to a dinner of pizza — Western food is banned by the Islamic State — and as we walked to the pizzeria she made a game of pointing out all the passers-by who would be decapitated by ISIS for improper dress, consorting with the opposite sex or sundry other offenses.
“It’s a million percent difference,” she exulted of life in the West. “Once you leave that area, you feel so good. Your whole body relaxes.”
Americans are understandably afraid of terrorism after the Paris attacks, and that fear is channeled at Syrian refugees. So pandering politicians portray the refugees as menaces whom the vetting process is unable to screen out, and Americans by nearly two to one  oppose President Obama’s plan to admit 10,000 Syrians over a year.
In fact, despite the impressions left by American politicians and by the Islamic State, Syrians are in general more educated and middle class than many other people in the region, and the women more empowered. Heba’s aspirations to be an artist aren’t unusual.
Security concerns are legitimate, but the refugee screening is a rigorous two-year process. It would be far simpler for the Islamic State to infiltrate the U.S. by dispatching European passport holders (like those who carried out the Paris attacks) on tourist visas, or just use supporters who are already American citizens.
The anti-refugee legislation that overwhelmingly passed the House of Representatives would effectively end the intake even of Christians and Yazidis who have been particularly targeted by the extremists.
In person, Syrian refugees are less scary than scared. Heba wouldn’t allow me to use her last name or publish her photo for fear of getting her family in trouble, and she cannot contact her mother for the same reason. (I’m not mentioning the town she lived in because she’s terrified that the Islamic State might try to identify and punish her family for her escape and for her candor to a Western journalist.)
Really, Ben Carson, you want to compare this freedom-loving woman to a rabid dog?
Donald Trump, when you said of Syrian refugees, “If I win, they’re going back,” do you really intend to deport Heba back to the Islamic State to be flogged or decapitated?
Heba is fed up with violence and extremism — but now in the West she encounters a new kind of political extremism that targets refugees like her. These Syrian refugees find themselves accused of potentially being the terrorists they flee.
“We have no connection to terrorism,” she told me, mystified that anyone could fear her. “We’re running away from all that.”
Heba showed me her abaya, which she keeps in her backpack. She says she never wants to wear it again, so I asked why she doesn’t discard it.
“I’m scared,” she admitted. “If they send us back, I will need it.”
Ben Carson and Donald Trump, Heba is neither a rabid dog nor a crazed terrorist, but a desperate young woman whose life is on the line. Let’s drop the fearmongering and let Heba cast away that abaya forever.
Cynthia Robinson, a trumpet player and original member of the seminal psychedelic-funk-soul group Sly and the Family Stone, died on Monday in Carmichael, Calif. She was 71. 
The cause was cancer, Jerry Martini, a friend and bandmate, said.
Ms. Robinson joined Sly Stone in a short-lived group called Sly and the Stoners in 1966. Soon after, he asked her to be a member of the Family Stone, whose inclusion of black and white musicians of both sexes, and its hippie style, made it a living poster for the ideals of the counterculture. 
In addition to supplying trumpet riffs, Ms. Robinson chipped in with vocals. At the beginning of “Dance to the Music,” the group’s first hit, she can be heard shouting, “Get on up and dance to the music!” and she is part of the punchy “hey, hey, hey” chorus in “I Want to Take You Higher.”
“Cynthia’s role in music history isn’t celebrated enough,” the producer and musician Questlove wrote on Instagram. “Her & sister Rose”— Mr. Stone’s sister, a singer and keyboardist with the group — “weren’t just pretty accessories there to ‘coo’ & ‘shoo wop shoo bob’ while the boys got the glory. Naw. They took names and kicked ass while you were dancing in the aisle.” 
With the rest of the band, Ms. Robinson was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1993.
Cynthia Robinson was born on Jan. 12, 1944, in Sacramento. She played flute in elementary school, but there were no flutes available at her high school, and she was told to play the clarinet. Unhappy, she asked a fellow student, whom she had heard playing the trumpet in a practice room, if she could give his instrument a try.
“Everything I blew was off key, but I knew it could sound good if you worked on it, and that’s what I wanted to do,” she told the online magazine  Rookie in 2013. 
Playing the trumpet put her in conflict with the boys at her school, who considered the trumpet strictly a male instrument. “It left me with the impression that, you know, no guy in the world would let a girl play the trumpet in his group,” she said in a 1993 interview for the Boston public radio station WGBH.
Her first trumpet belonged to a beatnik, who told her she could have it if she played at one of his parties. “It smelled bad, it had all kinds of green crud inside the tubing, so I took it home, cleaned it, soaked it in hot water, cleaned it all out, and it was mine,” she told Rookie.
Ms. Robinson had known Mr. Stone in high school by his real name, Sylvester Stewart, and had followed him when he was a D.J. at the San Francisco radio station KSOL. But when they crossed paths in the mid-1960s, she did not realize that “Sly Stone” was her former friend. By then he was a musician and record producer, with ideas about forming a musical group.
Although Sly and the Stoners failed to catch fire, the Family Stone showed promise from the outset. In an early rehearsal, the members tried a Ray Charles song, “I Don’t Need No Doctor,” with gratifying results.
“We hit that first note, and it was like the Fourth of July — I just saw sparks and lights and my body just went totally nuts,” Ms. Robinson told Rookie. “I couldn’t play anymore — it was magnificent. I’d never heard a sound that great.”
The group’s first album, “A Whole New Thing,” released in 1967, went nowhere, but “Dance to the Music,” released the following year, scored a Top 10 hit with the title song, leading to a string of chart successes: “Everyday People,” “Stand,” “Hot Fun in the Summertime” and “Thank You (Falettinme Be Mice Elf Again).”
The group broke up in 1975, but Ms. Robinson continued to record with Mr. Stone into the next decade. She played with the funk band Graham Central Station, led by her cousin and fellow Family Stone member Larry Graham, and worked with George Clinton and Prince. In 2006, she began playing with a new version of the Family Stone, which included two of the band’s original members, the saxophonist Mr. Martini and the drummer Greg Errico, as well as her daughter with Mr. Stone, Sylvette Phunne Robinson, also known as Phunne Stone. She and her daughter sang lead vocals on “Do Yo Dance,” a single released by the group this past summer.
Ms. Robinson died at Phunne Stone’s home and had lived in Sacramento. Survivors also include another daughter, Laura Marie Robinson, six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
“We were not even anticipating or reaching for stardom when we started,” Ms. Robinson told Rookie. “We just loved playing together.”
Responding to criticism over remarks he made on Tuesday, Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate and real estate developer, denied on Thursday that he was mocking the appearance of a reporter for The New York Times with a physical disability.
Mr. Trump, who said he did not recall having met the reporter, Serge F. Kovaleski, issued the statement over Twitter one day after news media reports that he had imitated the reporter during a rally in South Carolina. Mr. Trump described Mr. Kovaleski as trying to back away from a story he wrote in September 2001 while he was working for The Washington Post. The candidate used the article to try to justify his widely debunked claims that there were “thousands and thousands” of people “cheering” the fall of the World Trade Center after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.
In South Carolina, Mr. Trump described Mr. Kovaleski as a “nice reporter” before mocking his comments about the article in The Post.
“Now the poor guy, you ought to see this guy,” Mr. Trump said, before jerking his arms around and holding his right hand at an angle. “ ‘Ah, I don’t know what I said! I don’t remember!’ ”
Mr. Kovaleski, who covered Mr. Trump extensively while he was a reporter at The Daily News, has arthrogryposis, which limits the functioning of his joints.
In his statement on Thursday, Mr. Trump maintained that he had never met Mr. Kovaleski.
“I have no idea who this reporter, Serge Kovalski [sic], is, what he looks like or his level of intelligence,” Mr. Trump said.
“Despite having one of the all-time great memories, I certainly do not remember him,” he continued. “What I do know is that after 14 years and no retraction, this reporter tried to pull away from the tailgate party paragraph he wrote many years ago for The Washington Post.”
Mr. Trump, whose statement repeatedly criticized The Times, insisted that he “merely mimicked what I thought would be a flustered reporter trying to get out of a statement he made long ago.” He said that if “Mr. Kovaleski is handicapped, I would not know because I do not know what he looks like. If I did know, I would definitely not say anything about his appearance.”
In an interview on Thursday, Mr. Kovaleski said that he met with Mr. Trump repeatedly when he was a reporter for The Daily News covering the developer’s business career in the late 1980s, before joining The Post. “Donald and I were on a first-name basis for years,” Mr. Kovaleski said. “I’ve interviewed him in his office,” he added. “I’ve talked to him at press conferences. All in all, I would say around a dozen times, I’ve interacted with him as a reporter while I was at The Daily News.”
A representative for The Times said on Wednesday: “We’re outraged that he would ridicule the physical appearance of one of our reporters.”
Last Saturday, Mr. Trump, already under fire for voicing support for a database of Muslims in the United States, insisted that he had watched while “thousands and thousands of people” cheered in Jersey City as the twin towers collapsed.
After reports that the authorities had found the accounts unfounded, Mr. Trump seized on the 2001 article by Mr. Kovaleski as proof of his claim. That story contained a sentence saying that the authorities in the days after the terrorist strikes had detained and questioned “a number of people who were allegedly seen celebrating the attacks” on rooftops with tailgate-style parties. The story never referred to “thousands,” and it did not say that the allegations had been substantiated. Mr. Kovaleski, in interviews since Mr. Trump made his claim, has said his reporting did not bear out the “thousands” number, or even “hundreds.”
As for the claim that Mr. Kovaleski was trying to pull away from his past reporting, he said, “Nothing could be further from the truth.”
In “The Plot Against America,” the novelist Philip Roth imagines an alternative history at the dawn of World War II. Charles A. Lindbergh, aviator hero and crypto-fascist, defeats Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940. Rather than go to war against Nazi Germany, he foments an atmosphere of hatred directed at Jews in the United States.
President Lindbergh’s rule is based on fear. He can violate the Constitution because enough Americans do not mind limiting the freedom of a suspect minority in the name of security.
Of course, it could never happen here. It’s a novel, silly boy — one of late-stage Roth’s better efforts. Made-up stuff. That’s what I’ve always thought. But over the last three months, in listening to plans of the Republican presidential front-runner and the views of his increasingly thuggish followers, I’m starting to have some dark fears should Donald Trump become president.
Take him at his word — albeit, a worthless thing given his propensity for telling outright lies and not backing down when called on them — Donald Trump’s reign would be a police state. He has now outlined a series of measures that would make the United States an authoritarian nightmare. Trump is no longer entertaining, or diversionary. He’s a billionaire brute, his bluster getting more ominous by the day.
“We’re going to have to do things that we never did before,” he said in the demagogic spiral following the Paris attacks. “And some people are going to be upset about it, but I think that now everybody is feeling that security is going to rule.”
What’s he talking about? In his words, he wants to implement “the unthinkable.”
Let’s start with his most far-reaching crush of cruelty, the Trump promise to create a huge “deportation force” to storm into homes, churches, schools and businesses and round up all 11 million undocumented immigrants. In doing so, he would need an army of agents to go door-to-door, breaking up families, and snagging many citizens caught up the in the mass sweeps.
As his jackbooted minions grab legal Americans (the children born in this country, citizens per the 14th amendment) and separate them from their illegal parents, he will place them — where? In foster homes? In detention centers? In concentration camps?
He says it will take only two years for him to disrupt nearly every community in the United States, destroying thousands of businesses in the process. “I’m going to remove them so fast your head would spin.”
Let’s do the math: Trump promises to arrest, sort, and deport 11 million people — a number more than 25 percent higher than the entire population of New York City. This from the nominal leader of a party that doesn’t think government can do anything well. In practice, (imagine the viral videos) the new operation would prompt a million Hispanic Anne Franks — people hiding in the attics and basements of Donald Trump’s America.
To go with his Deportation Force, Trump would send another wave of federal authorities out to identify, track and monitor Muslims in America. All of them? He hasn’t said. He’s building his police state on the fly. But in just a few days he went from saying he would “strongly consider” closing houses of worship (mosques), to saying he would have “absolutely no choice” but to shut them down. As for tracking Muslims through some kind a database, he’s been squishy, but also unequivocal, saying, “I would certainly implement that.”
For those fleeing war and religious persecution from the butchers of the Islamic State, sorry if you’re Syrian — Trump would deport those already vetted refugees, mostly women and young children.
To further clamp down in this land of the formerly free, Trump could borrow a few police state ideas from his fellow Republican presidential candidates. Mike Huckabee has suggested using federal agents to invade doctors’ offices and homes, physically preventing women from ending a pregnancy.
Ben Carson has said would consider unleashing a new force in academia, using the Department of Education to root out and punish schools foisting “political correctness” on young minds.
But if all the fragile college students clamoring for trigger warnings want something to send them straight to their padded safety rooms, they should attend a Trump public event.
These rallies are scary spectacles of rabid brown shirts in Dockers. His followers cheer while others pummel protesters, or spit on them. A few days ago in Alabama, a black protester was punched and kicked by his supporters. Trump suggested the man had it coming.
Like any good authoritarian — Soviet or banana republic — Trump concocts plots and dark doings to scare the quivering masses. And no one on the public stage is better at the Big Lie this year than Trump. PolitiFact found that 75 percent of his so-called factual statements are “mostly or entirely false.” The other 25 percent were “half true” or “mostly true.” His score in the flat-out “true” column was zero.
But that doesn’t stop him. The more lies he tells, the more popular he is with a large part of the Republican base that lives in a world of made-up horror and blunt force solutions.
So, hordes of Mexicans continue to rush into the United States, he says, when in fact more people are now returning to Mexico than are coming in. Syrian refugees are “pouring into the country” when barely 2,000 have been admitted. And Trump continues to say “I saw” thousands and thousands of Muslims in New Jersey cheering the collapse of the twin towers on 9/11, when no such thing has ever been documented. The goal is to get you to hate them — Mexicans, Muslims, the object of all your fears.
As we enter the holidays, there is one more Trump vow to consider. “If I become president, we’re all going to be saying Merry Christmas again, that I can tell you.” With Trump, the seasonal salutation may be mandatory, and creepy.
It seemed like a powerful counterpoint to the perception of Donald Trump as intolerant: A hundred black ministers and religious leaders would endorse him at his offices in Manhattan, vouching for his sensitivity and broad-mindedness.
But within hours of the announcement a few days ago, furious backtracking, denials and finger-pointing were underway.
By Monday afternoon, the supposed declaration of support from a cross-section of African-Americans seemed to crumble as several pastors insisted they had never agreed to attend or back Mr. Trump. In the end, his political debut with black leaders was refashioned into a private meeting with a smaller group that played down talk of endorsements.
A few of those who showed up sounded uncomfortable. “It appears as if he’s a possible racist based upon some of the things he said about black America,” said Brehon Hall, a preacher from Toledo, Ohio, as he headed into the meeting at Trump Tower.
The awkward evolution of the event highlights the perils of a haphazard-seeming campaign that revolves almost entirely around a giant personality.
But it also captures the degree to which Mr. Trump, both the man and the candidate, has polarized African-Americans, a group he is now courting as he tries to shake accusations of bigotry. During the meeting on Monday, black ministers challenged Mr. Trump over his record, and suggested he apologize for his incendiary language, according to those who attended.
In an interview afterward, Mr. Trump described “great love in the room” and a wide-ranging, two-hour discussion of black unemployment, police shootings and deficiencies of urban education. “They liked me, and I liked them,” he said.
With a history of racially divisive remarks dating back decades, Mr. Trump had alienated many black leaders long before his current presidential campaign espoused what some viewed as coded language about “a silent majority” and overt dismissiveness of the swelling Black Lives Matter movement.
By the time African-American ministers like Corletta J. Vaughn of Detroit saw their names listed on a flier as attendees of a meeting that would end with an endorsement of Mr. Trump, a number of them expressed outrage.
“You’ve got to be kidding me,” Ms. Vaughn, the senior pastor at the Holy Spirit Cathedral of Faith in Detroit, said she remembered thinking when she saw the document. “That would kill me. My constituency would murder me. There is no way in the world I can do that.”
Despite the flier’s claim that she would meet with Mr. Trump, Ms. Vaughn said she had declined the invitation. So did Bishop Clarence E. McClendon of Los Angeles, another minister mentioned on the flier.
On Monday, the mounting frustration had boiled over. In New York City, a planned meeting on gun violence earlier in the day turned into a public scolding of Mr. Trump and the ministers in Harlem.
Invoking Mr. Trump’s charged language about immigrants (he has previously claimed Mexico was sending “rapists” across the border), the Rev. Al Sharpton wondered why black religious leaders would seek to bask “in the glow of a billionaire” while “offending their congregants and offending their cloth.”
“Let us not forget,” Mr. Sharpton said from the pulpit of his National Action Network, “Jesus was a refugee, and they are meeting with someone who has taken a mean stance against refugees. I don’t know how you preach Jesus, a refugee, on Sunday and then deal with a refugee-basher on Monday without raising the question.”
In a sign of his newly conciliatory tone on racial matters, Mr. Trump, who relishes rhetorical battle and leaves no attack unanswered, offered warm words to Mr. Sharpton on Monday afternoon.
“Deep down inside, Al likes me a lot,” Mr. Trump said in the interview. “That I can tell you.”
He gently added, “Al is doing his thing.”
For many African-American ministers, Mr. Trump remains a mystifying and sometimes inflammatory figure. As far back as the 1970s, when Mr. Trump was president of Trump Management, a giant New York City landlord, the company was accused by the Justice Department of using racially discriminatory rental policies. (It settled the case.)
In 1989, in the days after the brutal assault on a jogger in Central Park, Mr. Trump paid for a newspaper advertisement that warned of “roving bands of wild criminals” and called for the return of the death penalty — language denounced by some city leaders as racially provocative.
But he could also show flashes of sensitivity: He donated office space to the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader, inside a building he owned on Wall Street.
Today, Mr. Trump’s campaign puts little emphasis on black voters and has, at times, defended his supporters even when they have displayed hostility and physical violence toward black protesters. In the latest episode, the crowd at a Trump rally in Alabama turned on a black demonstrator who tried to interrupt the candidate’s speech, in some cases kicking and punching the man, according to videos.
Afterward, Mr. Trump sided with his supporters. “Maybe he should have been roughed up,” he said in a television interview. “It was disgusting what he was doing.”
Inside the closed-door meeting with Mr. Trump on Monday, black ministers pointedly mentioned the violent exchange, said George G. Bloomer, senior pastor of Bethel Family Worship Center in Durham, N.C.
“He said he didn’t know if it was a Black Lives Matter or white lives matter protester,” said Mr. Bloomer, who declined to endorse Mr. Trump but said he understood Mr. Trump’s frustration with the protester.
Pressure to endorse Mr. Trump hovered over the meeting, according to attendees, who said that cards pledging support were handed out for them to sign while Mr. Trump was in the room.
Mr. Trump brushed off the brouhaha over the meeting, and said he received “many, many endorsements” from the ministers. But the campaign declined to offer a list of either the ministers who attended or those who had endorsed him. After the meeting, a single religious leader, Darrell Scott, a Cleveland-area minister who helped organize the session, publicly endorsed Mr. Trump in the lobby of the building, overlooking Fifth Avenue.
Mr. Trump’s campaign initially boasted that 100 black ministers would gather with him. But photos provided by his aide on Monday afternoon showed a crowd of about half that size, including Trump staff members. (Among them: Omarosa Manigault, a memorable guest on Mr. Trump’s show, “The Apprentice,” who is now an ordained minister.)
Despite the public expressions of skepticism, Mr. Trump insisted that several of the ministers expressed admiration for him. After the meeting, the Trump campaign said it would connect a reporter to an attendee who could testify to Mr. Trump’s sincerity. At that point, Bruce LeVell of Atlanta got on the phone.
“It was very successful,” Mr. LeVell said of the meeting. “It was like sitting in his living room having a conversation. There was no tension.”
Other than the organizer of the event, Mr. LeVell was the only participant to provide a quote for a news release issued by Mr. Trump after the gathering.
It turns out, however, that Mr. LeVell is not a minister. He is a local Republican politician in Georgia. The campaign later apologized for the confusion, saying Mr. LeVell “is a prominent member” of his church.
On Monday night he was headed home to Atlanta on Mr. Trump’s private plane. Mr. Trump, he said, had invited him aboard.
“I got a free ticket,” Mr. LeVell explained.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• At the U.N. climate talks.
President Obama said today that much of the government’s spending would have to be devoted to dealing with changes if global temperatures continued to increase at their current pace, if sea levels continued to rise and weather patterns continued to shift.
As global leaders search for an agreement on solutions to global warming, their aggressive efforts may not be enough. Some experts have been outlining their own ambitious plan.
And India has so far staked out an uncompromising position on reducing emissions.
• Chicago police superintendent is fired.
Mayor Rahm Emanuel fired Garry F. McCarthy, after his department came under fire for resisting the release of a video showing an officer shooting a teenager 16 times in 2014.
• Paris attacks’ aftermath.
The White House has announced changes to the government’s visa-waiver program to try to stop visitors who have traveled to conflict zones from easily boarding U.S.-bound flights, a move intended to prevent an attack like the ones that struck Paris.
French government disclosures and documents reveal that the Nov. 13 attacks were fine-tuned through trial and error.
• On Capitol Hill.
House Republicans aim to undermine Mr. Obama today while he is in France by showing other leaders that the U.S. government does not support his climate initiatives.
Also, Ashton B. Carter, the defense secretary, and Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, will testify on the Islamic State militant group before the House Armed Services Committee. We’ll see if there are any signs of movement toward increasing the fight.
• Eye on the presidential campaigns.
Hillary Clinton gives the keynote address today at the National Bar Association’s tribute to Rosa Parks. It’s the 60th anniversary of Ms. Parks’s arrest for refusing to give up her seat to a white man on a bus in Montgomery, Ala.
Donald J. Trump’s efforts to receive an endorsement from a group of black pastors appeared to crumble.

• Can we “turn off” disease?
Scientists and ethicists are in Washington today for the International Summit on Human Gene Editing, to debate the use of a tool that allows researchers to spot a gene defect inside living cells and to swap it out.
• China’s ties with Africa.
President Xi Jinping of China begins a state visit to Zimbabwe today and will travel to South Africa on Wednesday.
China, which already spends considerable money on infrastructure in African countries, announced last week that it would establish its first overseas military outpost in the East African nation of Djibouti.
• Sign of a healthier U.S.
The number of new cases of diabetes in the U.S. has started to decline, after decades of increases.
Data released today shows the rate fell by about a fifth from 2008 to 2014.
• The Chinese renminbi has been anointed as one of the world’s elite currencies by the International Monetary Fund.
It paves the way for broader use of the renminbi in trade and finance, but also introduces new uncertainty into China’s economy and financial system.
• U.S. automakers today report sales of new vehicles last month, and it could be a record for November.
• Bond investors and federal lawmakers will be watching today to see whether Puerto Rico makes a $355 million debt payment.
• Wall Street stocks are gaining. European markets closed mixed, and Asian indexes finished broadly higher.
• Fresh reads.
“The Age of Reinvention,” already an international best seller, debuts today in the U.S. It’s about the fictional Sam Tahar, an elite New York lawyer who has a secret.
The novelist Paolo Giordano (“The Solitude of Prime Numbers”) explores love and loss in “Like Family.” And “Ametora” is a history of Japan’s embrace of American style after World War II.
• Warning: Too much salt.
Beginning today in New York City, chain restaurants are adding the image of a salt shaker on menu items with more than 2,300 milligrams of sodium, the recommended daily limit.
• A day for donors.
After Black Friday and Cyber Monday comes Giving Tuesday, a day of giving back.
And Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Bono and Stephen Colbert are among the speakers tonight at Carnegie Hall in New York for a World AIDS Day fund-raising event hosted by Trevor Noah.
• Battle at the bottom.
The Philadelphia 76ers could break the N.B.A. record for the worst start, at 0-19, tonight. They’ve lost 28 straight games dating to last season.
The 76ers host the worst team in the Western Conference, the Los Angeles Lakers.
• Winners.
The singer Adele wasn’t the only performer who had a big week. Broadway attracted its largest weekly audience ever.
• Forty-five films and counting.
The director Woody Allen celebrates his 80th birthday today.
How does an endangered species get out of danger?
Very slowly. For the Delmarva fox squirrel, which appeared on the very first U.S. list of endangered wildlife in 1967, it has taken 48 years.
The Delmarva fox squirrel is an oversize yet more shy version of your common gray squirrel of suburbia, but it’s a forest-dweller.
Mass clearing of trees for agriculture and development in the Delaware, Maryland and Virginia peninsula, as well as in southern Pennsylvania, cut its range down to only four Maryland counties by 1967.
Overhunting also helped lead it to the brink of extinction.
Today, at least 17,000 Delmarva fox squirrels can be found on about 135,000 acres of the peninsula in 10 counties, according to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.
The growth, though small, was mostly the result of relocating some of the animals in 11 populations across the three states and of hunting bans.
Owners of private land — 80 percent of the squirrel’s natural habitat — played a crucial role by hosting the new populations, the service said.
The fox squirrel now joins about 30 species, including the bald eagle, the American alligator and the peregrine falcon, out of danger of extinction.
Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
WASHINGTON — For months, much of the Republican Party’s establishment has been uneasy about the rise of Donald J. Trump, concerned that he was overwhelming the presidential primary contest and encouraging other candidates to mimic his incendiary speech. Now, though, irritation is giving way to panic as it becomes increasingly plausible that Mr. Trump could be the party’s standard-bearer and imperil the careers of other Republicans.
Many leading Republican officials, strategists and donors now say they fear that Mr. Trump’s nomination would lead to an electoral wipeout, a sweeping defeat that could undo some of the gains Republicans have made in recent congressional, state and local elections. But in a party that lacks a true leader or anything in the way of consensus — and with the combative Mr. Trump certain to scorch anyone who takes him on — a fierce dispute has arisen about what can be done to stop his candidacy and whether anyone should even try.
Some of the highest-ranking Republicans in Congress and some of the party’s wealthiest and most generous donors have balked at trying to take down Mr. Trump because they fear a public feud with the insult-spewing media figure. Others warn that doing so might backfire at a time of soaring anger toward political insiders.
That has led to a standoff of sorts: Almost everyone in the party’s upper echelons agrees something must be done, and almost no one is willing to do it.
With his knack for offending the very constituencies Republicans have struggled with in recent elections, women and minorities, Mr. Trump could be a millstone on his party if he won the nomination. He is viewed unfavorably by 64 percent of women and 74 percent of nonwhite voters, according to a November ABC News/Washington Post poll. Such unpopularity could not only doom his candidacy in November but also threaten the party’s tenuous majority in the Senate, hand House seats to the Democrats and imperil Republicans in a handful of governor’s races.
In states with some of the most competitive Senate contests, the concern is palpable, especially after weeks in which Mr. Trump has made a new series of inflammatory statements.
“If he carries this message into the general election in Ohio, we’ll hand this election to Hillary Clinton — and then try to salvage the rest of the ticket,” said Matt Borges, chairman of the Republican Party there, where Senator Rob Portman is facing a competitive re-election.
Pat Brady, the former state Republican chairman in Illinois, where Senator Mark S. Kirk is also locked in a difficult campaign, was even more direct. “If he’s our nominee, the repercussions of that in this state would be devastating,” Mr. Brady said.
Another Republican strategist in Ohio replied to an email asking about Mr. Trump’s effect in the state by sending a link to a Wikipedia page on the 1964 congressional elections, when Barry Goldwater’s presence atop the Republican ticket led the party to lose 36 House seats.
In Washington, many of the party’s top operatives believe that there is no way even the strongest Senate candidates could overcome the tide if Mr. Trump were leading the ticket.
“Senator Portman is a great example I like to use when talking about this,” said Brian Walsh, a Senate campaign veteran. “He’s very well prepared, has tons of cash in the bank, and he got his campaign organized and up and running early. But if we nominate a bad presidential candidate like Trump, senators like Portman or Kelly Ayotte aren’t going to be able to outrun Hillary by that much. And there goes the Senate.”
Asked about concerns over Mr. Trump’s potential influence on other contests, his spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said, “I think the facts indicate the exact opposite is true,” and emailed a link to a consumer marketing firm’s assertion that Mr. Trump would ensure the highest general election turnout from Republicans, Democrats and independents alike.
Yet the clamor for a “Stop Trump” effort has become pervasive at the Senate’s highest levels, where members up for re-election are realizing that they can no longer dismiss as strictly theoretical the possibility of his capturing the nomination. Mr. Trump’s persistent ranking at or near the top of the polls is prompting urgent calls for an advertising assault to try to sink his campaign.
“It would be an utter, complete and total disaster,” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, himself a presidential candidate who has tangled with Mr. Trump, said of his rival’s effect on lower-tier Republican candidates. “If you’re a xenophobic, race-baiting, religious bigot, you’re going to have a hard time being president of the United States, and you’re going to do irreparable damage to the party.”
Mr. Graham recounted separate phone calls with two of the party’s most sought-after donors last week, people who he insisted not be named but who give tens of millions of dollars to Republicans every election year. He said they had expressed alarm at Mr. Trump’s durability and asked what could be done.
“I said, ‘If you care about the future of the Republican Party, and you want to have a viable Republican Party, you better start moving,’” Mr. Graham said. “If they don’t push back, they’ll have nobody to blame but themselves.”
“There is not a bit of confusion among our members that if Donald Trump is the nominee, we’re going to get wiped out,” a prominent Republican senator said about Mr. Trump’s effect on Senate races in states such as New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Ohio.
Pleading for an outside group to run ads highlighting, for example, people who lost their jobs because of some of Mr. Trump’s business deals, the senator warned, “Until somebody with A, the money, and B, the incentive to step up comes along, I worry he kind of glides along unmolested.”
But the same reason the senator insisted on anonymity explains why, just two months before the Iowa caucuses, there has been no such ad campaign: To step up in that way would be to invite the wrath of Mr. Trump, who relishes belittling his critics.
Two of the most potent financial networks in Republican politics, that of the hedge fund billionaire Paul Singer and another led by the industrialists Charles G. and David H. Koch, have each had preliminary conversations about beginning an anti-Trump campaign, according to strategists involved. But Mr. Trump has already mocked Mr. Singer and the Kochs, and officials linked to them said they were reluctant to incur more ferocious counterattacks.
“You have to deal with Trump berating you every day of the week,” explained a strategist briefed on the thinking of both groups.
The sidelines are crowded. The Las Vegas casino magnate Sheldon Adelson; the U.S. Chamber of Commerce; American Crossroads, the group led by Karl Rove; and Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting Jeb Bush, have no immediate plans to go after Mr. Trump, officials said.
The exceptions so far: The super PAC supporting the presidential bid of Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio has attacked Mr. Trump, but partly to gain attention and raise money. The Club for Growth, a conservative group, ran a short-lived and unsuccessful ad campaign against Mr. Trump in Iowa this fall but has limited resources.
Slowly, some members of the party’s establishment are reckoning with the idea of a Trump ticket. The National Republican Senatorial Committee has cautioned its incumbents in blunt terms not to let themselves be linked to him.
But beyond sheer intimidation, some members of Congress worry that if the party’s establishment went after Mr. Trump, it would only fuel his anti-Washington appeal.
“I think it would play into his hands and only validate him,” said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee. “A ‘Stop Trump’ effort wouldn’t work, and it might help him.”
And some Republicans repelled by Mr. Trump feel little urgency to attack him because, they say, he is preventing what they see as an even less desirable standard-bearer — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas — from consolidating the votes of hard-line conservatives.
“He’s keeping Cruz where he is,” Scott Reed, a veteran Republican strategist, said of Mr. Trump.
In the House, where the Republican majority is safer, there is less worry about Mr. Trump. While the most competitive Senate races are in swing states, many House districts tilt toward the right, and the populist fervor that is lifting Mr. Trump may also aid Republican candidates for those seats.
But there are also some Republicans who, while uneasy about Mr. Trump, believe that he could attract new voters to the party. “He may bring out people who don’t usually vote, which could be helpful to some of my colleagues,” said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine.
Yet Ms. Collins conceded that she had not fully thought through that notion. “I’m not up next year,” she said, “so I don’t have that dilemma.”
The continuing strength of Donald J. Trump’s bid for the Republican presidential nomination has dumbfounded his own party, the media, political scientists, donors and pollsters.
Trump himself is not much of a mystery (he’s the opposite of a mystery, in fact), but the depth and power of his support, of the emotional connection that his supporters feel with him, of his seeming indestructibility as a candidate — that’s the mystery.
Equally mysterious is the precise agenda of the 30 percent of Republican voters who say they will vote for him once they get into a voting booth and actually cast a ballot.
Despite the unpredictability of Trump’s future as a politician, we still need to understand the roots of his current success — perhaps no one more so than the leaders of the Republican establishment, who have to try to harness the Trump phenomenon without destroying their party in the process.
Perhaps the fields of psychiatry and political psychology can serve as a source of insight into Trump and the political intentions of those who say they will vote for him, whether or not they eventually compromise on another candidate.
David Berg, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine, responded to my inquiry with a perceptive interpretation. He observes that for many voters, perceived threats to their security are now coming
Individuals facing multiple threats like these experience an instinctive choice between fight or flight, but flight is not an option, Berg claims, because
The need for security has intensified since the financial collapse of 2008 demonstrated to many voters that their economic security was imperiled.
Trump appeals to the anger, discontent and sense of entrapment that plague contemporary voters, Berg notes:
Because of this, Berg believes that the Trump campaign “will have legs for quite a while.”
A number of Berg’s colleagues are also developing psychologically informed arguments.
John Gartner, a professor of psychiatry at Johns Hopkins Medical School and a practicing psychologist, views Trump as an example par excellence of a particularly American persona: the domineering, risk-taking, charismatic entrepreneur.
Gartner is the author of two books — “The Hypomanic Edge and “In Search of Bill Clinton: A Psychological Biography,” in which he proposes the concept of “a genetically based form of mild mania” that “endows many of us with energy, creativity, enthusiasm, and a propensity for taking risks” to describe notable American men from Alexander Hamilton to Andrew Carnegie, from Clinton to Donald Trump.
This mild or subclinical state — “not in and of itself, an illness. It is a temperament” — characterizes many of the most successful American men, Gartner contends. He lists their distinctive traits:
Gartner warns that this constellation of traits, which compel loyalty and support, can also lead “to impulsive behavior (ready, shoot, aim) and confident leaders who glibly take their followers over a cliff.”
Trump makes white working-class voters, the core of his support, “feel safe,” Gartner told me in a phone interview.
Poll data from the Pew Research Center shows how much Trump depends on the politically restive white working class. His backing from voters with a high school degree or less is twice as high as is it is from those with college degrees; the percentage of men lining up behind him is eight points higher than the percentage of women; voters from households making $40,000 or less are 12 points more likely to cast a Trump ballot than those from households making more than $75,000.
Unlike most Republican candidates, Trump rejects cuts in Social Security and Medicare — programs strongly supported by the white working class. And, while he nods in the direction of the anti-abortion movement, he does not attempt to impose a repressive sexual morality (after all, he has been married three times).
Gartner warns that the qualities that “get you elected are not the same as the capacity for governing.” Hypomanic individuals do not necessarily make effective presidents, he said, unless their “energy, optimism, and drive” are balanced by capacities that he thinks Trump might lack:
Joseph Burgo, a psychotherapist and the author of “The Narcissist You Know,” put the logic of Trump’s appeal in straightforward terms:
Lise Van Susteren, a forensic psychiatrist based in Washington, D.C., argued in a phone interview that Trump filled different roles for women and men:
For less well-educated white men, Van Susteren said,
Stanley Renshon, a political scientist at CUNY and a psychoanalyst, also claimed in a phone interview that many in the electorate felt besieged. For these voters, Trump is “saying things what everybody thinks,” and in the process, he is
W. Keith Campbell, professor of psychology at the University of Georgia, noted in a phone interview that
Campbell, who distinguished himself from “liberal academics,” said “when I talk to normal people” the idea of “opening up to additional immigration when so many people are struggling to find good work just seems politically insane. Why should we bring in 200,000 Syrians?”
Trump is a high-risk candidate who is in constant danger of self-immolation. But not only has he outlasted a long list of controversies, he has thrived in their wake. As Campbell put it,
Trump’s opponents fail to recognize that his apparent vulnerabilities — his hubris, his narcissism, his bullying, his boisterousness — have been strengths in a primary campaign premised on defiance of political correctness, left and right.
Regardless of the outcome, the somewhat brutish tenor of the Trump campaign will leave a significant legacy, a legacy implicit in the question posed by Karen Tumulty of The Washington Post, “Will Trump eventually cross a line — or do the lines no longer exist?”
At the moment, Trump leads in polls of Republican primary voters at 30 percent. Impressive as that is, more than 66 percent of Republican voters surveyed chose someone other than Trump.
Going a step further, if Trump’s 30 percent of Republican primary voters is a marker of his core support, that translates to just 7.5 percent of all the voters who will cast ballots in the general election next November.
Win or lose, Trump has made millions of Americans acutely aware of their dissatisfaction and prepared them to voice their resentment in the voting booth. The emotions he’s awakened and benefited from aren’t going away.
If Trump is not nominated, the Republican candidate is still almost certain to have one of the Democratic Party’s more polarizing figures, Hillary Clinton, as an opponent, giving Trump supporters an incentive to remain loyal.
But the larger problem Trump has created for the Republican Party is that his success has pushed all likely alternative candidates to the right, further from the mainstream, particularly on immigration.
If Trump achieves nothing else, he has already proved himself to be a one-man wrecking crew, demolishing the efforts of Republican leaders and consultants after the 2012 election to soften the harder edges of their party.
What is it like to be on the receiving end of a phone call from Donald J. Trump? What do members of the Republican elite say in private about Mr. Trump and his candidacy? And, does Mr. Trump even want to be president?
In this Inside The Times podcast, Carolyn Ryan, the politics editor, and Michael Barbaro and Maggie Haberman, political reporters, talk about what it’s like to cover the candidate. “One of the challenges of interviewing him, is that he is an entertainment figure who is entertaining,” says Mr. Barbaro, who explains why this makes it hard to pin the candidate down on facts or particulars.
And they reflect on the strength of the Trump campaign. “It is a unique moment for someone like him who has a unique understanding of national media. He keeps doing it his way,” says Ms. Haberman.
In a lively and informal conversation, Ms. Ryan and two of the most experienced reporters on The Times’s political beat provide a behind-the-scenes look inside the daily business of covering Mr. Trump, and the combination of factors that have contributed to his success thus far.
Susan Lehman is the host.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
 1. At least 14 people were killed and at least 17 others seriously wounded when several gunmen opened fire at a conference hall where county employees were meeting in San Bernardino, Calif. Authorities said two suspects — one man and one woman — were killed in a shootout, and a third person has been detained. One of the suspects has been identified as Syed Farook, an employee of the county public health department, officials said. Our live coverage is here.
2. “They came prepared for what they did and they were on a mission,” the police chief said. “They came in with a purpose. They came in with the intent to do something.” President Obama and many other people repeated appeals for stronger gun controls.
3. The coalition to fight the Islamic State grew stronger, as Britain’s Parliament voted to join the U.S.-led bombing campaign in Syria. Germany’s Parliament is expected to add reconnaissance planes and a frigate to back France’s aircraft carrier. But hopes of integrating Russia’s separate military strikes have met only with frustration as tensions with NATO rise.
4. At the same time, the Islamic State’s claim to be a legitimate governing body for Muslims in the areas it controls has been undermined as people flee its cruelty, failure to deliver services and onerous tax system. “So many people are migrating,” said a teacher who left for Turkey last month. “ISIS wants to build a new society, but they’ll end up all alone.”
5. The climate talks in Paris took on a more procedural tone on their third day, after world leaders departed. The talks conclude Dec. 11, by which time the negotiators hope to have forged a global pact to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and a fund to help poor and developing nations, and those being inundated by rising sea levels, like the Marshall Islands, above.
6. Political polling is gaining urgency, with the Iowa caucuses just two months away. The latest survey shows Hillary Clinton leading Bernie Sanders 60 percent to 30 percent among Democrats, and Donald Trump solidly ahead in the Republican field. But Marco Rubio, above, and Ted Cruz are neck and neck for second as Ben Carson drops back.
7. Michelle Obama greeted military families and their children at the annual preview of the White House’s holiday decorations. “We do this because of everything that you all do every day to make our country great,” she said.
8. President Obama’s new plan for closing the prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, calls for shrinking the number of detainees to a few dozen, and then bringing them to a prison on domestic soil before he leaves office in January 2017.
9. Opening arguments in the first trial over the death of Freddie Gray laid out starkly different versions of how he came to suffer a fatal spinal cord injury in the custody of the Baltimore police. The defendant, Officer William Porter, has pleaded not guilty to four counts — manslaughter, assault, reckless endangerment and misconduct.
10. How often does science bring us such reassuring news? Two studies suggest that exercisers are more likely to drink alcohol — and that the interplay may offer a more pervasive and lasting neurological high.
11. Watch: The cane toad, introduced to Australia in 1935 to combat a sugar cane beetle, became a textbook example of the damage invasive species can cause. One victim was this creature, the northern quoll, which gamely tried to become a predator of the poisonous toad — and died in large numbers as a result. Now that island breeding groups have restored the quoll’s numbers, scientists aim to bring some back to the mainland, and train them not to eat toad.
Video produced by Sofia Perpetua.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
The Republican establishment, that lumbering beast, still can’t decide on how and whether and when to go after Donald J. Trump. But last week a few Republican insiders floated an accusation that you usually hear liberals sling against the right: That the real estate magnate turned populist is actually a fascist.
The hook for this charge was Trump’s illiberal musings about Muslims and databases and his lies — or, to be charitable, false memories — about cheering throngs of Muslim-Americans after Sept. 11.
But the charge can be easily fleshed out with more examples. Writing for Slate last week, Jamelle Bouie argued that Trumpism, however ideologically inchoate, manifests at least seven of the hallmarks of fascism identified by the Italian polymath Umberto Eco. They include: a cult of action, a celebration of aggressive masculinity, an intolerance of criticism, a fear of difference and outsiders, a pitch to the frustrations of the lower middle class, an intense nationalism and resentment at national humiliation, and a “popular elitism” that promises every citizen that they’re part of “the best people of the world.”
Does this sound like Trump? Well, yes, it rather does: His bravado and performative machismo (complete with mockery of the weak, unattractive and disabled), his obsession with how we get “beat” by other nations and need to start beating them instead, his surprisingly deft exploitation of blue-collar economic anxieties, his dark references to Mexican “rapists” and other immigrant threats, and as of this week his promise to not only bomb and torture our foreign enemies into submission but to round up their families as well — no, it isn’t hard to match Eco’s list to many of the Donald’s greatest hits.
One could even go a little further. A great deal has been written on the question of why America didn’t produce an enduring socialist or Communist mass movement in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. But the absence of a real American fascism (as opposed to the “fascism” that liberals see lurking in every Republican president) is equally striking. And part of the explanation has to be that the American conservative tradition has always included important elements — a libertarian skepticism of state power, a stress on localism and states’ rights, a religious and particularly Protestant emphasis on the conscience of an individual over the power of the collective — that inoculated our politics against fascism’s appeal.
But Trump, because he isn’t really an ideological conservative, lacks that inoculation. And while he has a number of obvious similarities to past right-populist candidates, from Pat Buchanan to Ross Perot to the Alabama governor George Wallace, he tends to differ from them in precisely the places where fascist temptations can creep in.
Buchanan, for instance, was a nationalist, but also a deeply religious man, whose campaigns were fueled as much by pro-life conviction as by populism. Not so Trump: He plainly regards his semi-professed Christianity purely instrumentally and has little time for the religious right’s causes.
Perot was an economic nationalist but also an obsessive deficit hawk and budget balancer, who won a lot of libertarian votes with his promise of a green-eyeshade approach to government. Not so Trump: He clearly doesn’t care a whit for limited government or libertarianism, and he’s delighted with a hyperactive state so long as it’s working hand-in-glove with corporate interests.
Wallace was a noxious segregationist, but his racism was bound up in a local and regional chauvinism, a skepticism of centralized power and far-off Washington elites. Not so Trump: When he sounds an anti-Washington note, the argument isn’t that local governments can do things better, or that local folkways need respect; it’s that he can do things better, that centralization is fine and dandy so long as you have the right Duce — er, Donald — at the top.
Whether or not we want to call Trump a fascist outright, then, it seems fair to say that he’s closer to the “proto-fascist” zone on the political spectrum than either the average American conservative or his recent predecessors in right-wing populism.
So is it time for Trump watchers to dust off their copies of “It Can’t Happen Here” and “The Plot Against America”? Should Trump’s rivals imitate the “fascism” whisperers in their party and start attacking Trump as a bouffant-haired Hitler at the next Republican debate?
I would say no, for three reasons. First, Trump may indeed be a little fascistic, but that sinister resemblance is just one part of his reality-television meets WWE-heel-turn campaign style. He isn’t actually building a fascist mass movement (he hasn’t won a primary yet!) or rallying a movement of far-right intellectuals (Ann Coulter notwithstanding). His suggestion that a Black Lives Matter protester at one of his rallies might have deserved to be roughed up was pretty ugly, but still several degrees of ugly away from the actual fascist move, which would require organizing a paramilitary force to take to the streets to brawl with the decadent supporters of our rotten legislative government.
Second, precisely because Trump doesn’t have many of the core commitments that have tended to inoculate conservatives against fascism, it’s still quite likely that the Republican Party is inoculated against him. His lack of any real religious faith, his un-libertarian style and record, his clear disdain for the ideas that motivate many of the most engaged Republicans — these qualities haven’t prevented him from consolidating a quarter of the Republican electorate, but they should make it awfully difficult for him to get to 40 or 50 percent. And a somewhat fascist-looking candidate who tops out where Trump’s poll numbers are currently hovering is not something to panic over — yet.
Finally, freaking out over Trump-the-fascist is a good way for the political class to ignore the legitimate reasons he’s gotten this far — the deep disaffection with the Republican Party’s economic policies among working-class conservatives, the reasonable skepticism about the bipartisan consensus favoring ever more mass low-skilled immigration, the accurate sense that the American elite has misgoverned the country at home and abroad.
If Republicans don’t want Trump the phenomenon to turn into an actual movement, if they don’t want the intimations of fascism in his appeal to cohere into something programmatically dangerous, then tarring his supporters with the brush of Mussolini and Der Führer right now seems like a shortsighted step — a way to repress the problem rather than dealing with it, to dismiss discontents and have them return, stronger and deadlier, further down the road.
The best way to stop a proto-fascist, in the long run, is not to scream “Hitler!” on a crowded debate stage. It’s to make sure that he never has a point.
WASHINGTON — Donald J. Trump and Ben Carson may not have reduced doubts about their seriousness as leaders and their understanding of global affairs on Thursday as they delivered meandering speeches to one of the country’s most influential Republican Jewish organizations.
Mr. Carson, who has been trying to reverse perceptions that he does not have substantive knowledge about foreign policy, repeatedly mispronounced the name of the militant Palestinian group Hamas as he rushed through a prepared script before the Republican Jewish Coalition. He kept calling it something that sounded more like hummus.
Mr. Trump, whose remarks about Hispanics, Muslims and African-Americans have led to allegations of bigotry, littered his speech with jokes about money and what good negotiators Jews were supposed to be.
“I don’t want your money; therefore, you’re probably not going to support me,” he said, drawing blank stares from a crowd that at one point greeted his remarks with boos.
It was an event with a heavily Jewish audience but no Jewish speakers, and there were plenty of attempts by the candidates to telegraph their affinity for the religion. Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, recalling his mother’s advice: “If you want to look for a really good friend, get somebody who’s Jewish.” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina: “I may have the first all-Jewish cabinet.” Senator Ted Cruz of Texas: “We are facing a moment like Munich in 1938.”
The gathering was intended to serve as a forum for Republican presidential candidates to engage in a high-minded discussion on Israel and the role of the United States in an increasingly dangerous world.
And while there were many serious and alarming assessments of national security from the candidates, the event quickly veered from sober to surreal.
Mr. Carson, who has ad-libbed his way into several controversies during the campaign, began with a lighthearted warning that he would “actually be using a script.”
“It may be the first time anybody has seen me doing that,” he said.
He rushed through his words and rarely broke from the prepared text to make eye contact with his audience. His speech — part basic history lesson on the Middle East and part observational narrative with his own take on the underpinnings of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict — was full of generalities from a candidate who has been criticized for not being well-versed in foreign policy.
“The world is complicated; the Middle East is even more complicated,” he said at one point.
He read through an array of disparate topics, from circumcision to John Quincy Adams’s support for a Jewish homeland to his own recent trip to Israel, during which he said he feared he might be shot.
“I actually had a chance to go into some of those tunnels when I was there last year,” he said, referring to the passages that Palestinian terrorists use to mount assaults against Israel. “Although we were carefully looking for people who might be trying to shoot us when we came out.”
The audience received him politely.
The reception for Mr. Trump was not always so cordial. He was jeered after he would not answer a question about whether Jerusalem should be split in two.
“I want to wait until I meet with Bibi,” he said, referring to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. When the objections from the crowd grew louder, he snapped at one of his hecklers. “Who’s the wiseguy?” he asked, gesturing to someone near the front. “Do me a favor. Just relax. You’ll like me very much.”
In an attempt at humor, he brought up the stereotype of Jewish people as hard-nosed negotiators.
“Is there anyone that doesn’t renegotiate deals in this room?” he said as he was outlining how he would drive a hard bargain with America’s adversaries. Then he answered his own question. “Perhaps more than any room I’ve ever spoken to.”
That line drew some hearty laughs. But three times, he came back to the subject of money. “Stupidly, you want to give money,” he said. “Trump doesn’t want money.”
Ari Fleischer, a board member with the Republican Jewish Coalition and George W. Bush’s former press secretary, said Mr. Trump seemed to be implying “the only thing you guys in this audience want is to own a candidate.”
“It’s not about him taking our money,” he added. “To think it’s about money and influence is a fundamental misreading of voters, especially this audience.”
Mr. Trump also used the event and its focus on Islamic radicalism to return to a subject he had appeared to let go: the question of President Obama’s heritage. Insisting that the president refused to identify radical Islam’s influence on terrorism, Mr. Trump said: “He refuses to use the term. There’s something going on with him that we don’t know about.”
Some in the crowd applauded.
When the focus was on the seriousness of Wednesday’s events in San Bernardino, Calif, where 14 people died in a shooting rampage, other candidates took turns explaining how they would combat terrorists and help repair America’s relationship with Israel. Some directly linked the shootings in San Bernardino to global terror. Others hinted at the possible ties more generally because the facts were still coming in. But they all insisted that the Obama administration bore responsibility for not taking America’s enemies seriously enough.
“This horrific murder underscores that we are in a time of war — whether or not the current administration realizes or is willing to acknowledge it,” Mr. Cruz told the crowd. “We need a president who will call the enemy by its name: radical Islamic terrorism. And we will defeat it.”
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida characterized threats from Iran, the Islamic State and Palestinian radicals as a common, dangerous strain of fundamentalism that knows no borders.
“This enemy hates our two nations — both liberal democracies, both products of the Judeo-Christian tradition,” he said. “We must not separate the threat to Jerusalem and Tel Aviv from the threat to Paris or London or New York or Miami.”
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey insisted, “Everyplace in America is a target,” adding, “We need to come to grips with the idea that we are in the midst of the next world war.”
Jeb Bush said of global terrorists, “They have declared war on us, and we need to declare war on them.”
Asked at the end of his remarks how his parents were doing, Mr. Bush acknowledged there had been something utterly perplexing to his father, former President George Bush. 
“It’s hard for a guy like that to understand the Trump phenomenon,” Jeb Bush said.
A little while ago I went rug shopping. Four rugs were laid out on the floor and among them was one with a pink motif that was dazzlingly beautiful. It was complex and sophisticated. If you had asked me at that moment which rug I wanted, I would have said the pink one.
This conviction lasted about five minutes. But then my mentality flipped and I started asking some questions. Would the furniture go with this rug? Would this rug clash with the wall hangings? Would I get tired of its electric vibrancy?
Suddenly a subtler and more prosaic blue rug grabbed center stage. The rugs had not changed, but suddenly I wanted the blue rug. The pink rug had done an excellent job of being eye-popping on its own. The blue rug was doing an excellent job of being a rug I could enjoy living with.
For many Republicans, Donald Trump is their pink rug. He does the job that they want done at this moment. He reflects their disgust with the political establishment. He gives them the pleasurable sensation that somebody can come to Washington, kick some tail and shake things up.
But decision-making is a journey, not an early December snapshot. It goes in stages.
The campaign may seem old, but we are still in the casual attention stage. Every four years pollsters ask Iowa and New Hampshire voters when they made up their minds. Roughly 70 or 80 percent make up their minds in the final month of the race. Up until then they are busy with life and work and just glancing at the campaign. If you ask them which candidate they support, that question may generate an answer, but that doesn’t mean they are actually committed to electing the name they happen to utter.
Over at the FiveThirtyEight blog, Nate Silver looked at campaign-related Google searches in past years in the weeks before the Iowa caucuses. Until a week or two before the caucuses very few people are doing any serious investigations of the candidates. Then just before and after the caucuses voters get engaged and Google searches surge.
Silver produced a chart showing what this year’s polling would look like if we actually took the current levels of casual attention and uncertainty seriously. In that chart “Undecided” had 80 percent support. Trump had 5 percent support; Carson, 4; Cruz, 3; and Rubio, 2.
That’s about the best description of where the Republican race is right now.
Just because voters aren’t making final decisions doesn’t mean they are passive. They’re in the dressing room. They’re trying on different outfits. Most of them are finding they like a lot of different conflicting choices.
Human beings have multiple selves. The mind dances from this module to that module. When Montaigne tried to describe his mind, he wrote, “I cannot keep my subject still. It goes along befuddled and staggering, with a natural drunkenness.” In one mood Trump seems pretty attractive to some people. In another it’s Carson, or Cruz or Rubio.
But in the final month the mentality shifts. The question is no longer, What shiny object makes me feel good? The question is, Who do I need at this moment to do the job? Different sorts of decision-making styles kick in.
For example, there are two contrasting types of decision-making mentalities, maximizing and satisficing. If you’re choosing a marriage partner, you probably want to maximize. You want to find the very best person you are totally in love with. You’ll need that passion to fuse you two together so you can survive the tough times. You want somebody who can inspire and be a messenger to your best future.
But politics is not like that. Politics is a prosaic activity most of the time. You probably want to satisfice, pick the person who’s good enough, who seems reasonably responsible.
When campaigns enter that final month, voters tend to gravitate toward the person who seems most orderly. As the primary season advances, voters’ tolerance for risk declines. They focus on the potential downsides of each contender and wonder, Could this person make things even worse?
When this mental shift happens, I suspect Trump will slide. All the traits that seem charming will suddenly seem risky. The voters’ hopes for transformation will give way to a fear of chaos. When the polls shift from registered voters to likely voters, cautious party loyalists will make up a greater share of those counted.
The voting booth focuses the mind. The experience is no longer about self-expression and feeling good in the moment. It’s about the finger on the nuclear trigger for the next four years. In an era of high anxiety, I doubt Republican voters will take a flyer on their party’s future — or their country’s future.
“Something bad is happening,” Donald J. Trump warned New Hampshire voters Tuesday night, casting suspicions on Muslims and mosques. “Something really dangerous is going on.”
On Thursday evening, his message was equally ominous, as he suggested a link between the shootings in San Bernardino, Calif., and President Obama’s failure to say “radical Islamic terrorism.”
“There is something going on with him that we don’t know about,” Mr. Trump said of the president, drawing applause from the crowd in Washington.
The dark power of words has become the defining feature of Mr. Trump’s bid for the White House to a degree rarely seen in modern politics, as he forgoes the usual campaign trappings — policy, endorsements, commercials, donations — and instead relies on potent language to connect with, and often stoke, the fears and grievances of Americans.
The New York Times analyzed every public utterance by Mr. Trump over the past week from rallies, speeches, interviews and news conferences to explore the leading candidate’s hold on the Republican electorate for the past five months. The transcriptions yielded 95,000 words and several powerful patterns, demonstrating how Mr. Trump has built one of the most surprising political movements in decades and, historians say, echoing the appeals of some demagogues of the past century.
Mr. Trump’s breezy stage presence makes him all the more effective because he is not as off-putting as those raging men of the past, these experts say.
The most striking hallmark was Mr. Trump’s constant repetition of divisive phrases, harsh words and violent imagery that American presidents rarely use, based on a quantitative comparison of his remarks and the news conferences of recent presidents, Democratic and Republican. He has a particular habit of saying “you” and “we” as he inveighs against a dangerous “them” or unnamed other — usually outsiders like illegal immigrants (“they’re pouring in”), Syrian migrants (“young, strong men”) and Mexicans, but also leaders of both political parties.
At an event in Raleigh, N.C., on Friday evening, his voice scratchy and hoarse, Mr. Trump was asked by a 12-year-old girl from Virginia, “I’m scared — what are you going to do to protect this country?”
“You know what, darling? You’re not going to be scared anymore. They’re going to be scared. You’re not going to be scared,” Mr. Trump said, before describing the Sept. 11 terrorists as “animals” who sent their families back to the Middle East. “We never went after them. We never did anything. We have to attack much stronger. We have to be more vigilant. We have to be much tougher. We have to be much smarter, or it’s never, ever going to end.”
While many candidates appeal to the passions and patriotism of their crowds, Mr. Trump appears unrivaled in his ability to forge bonds with a sizable segment of Americans over anxieties about a changing nation, economic insecurities, ferocious enemies and emboldened minorities (like the first black president, whose heritage and intelligence he has all but encouraged supporters to malign).
“ ‘We vs. them’ creates a threatening dynamic, where ‘they’ are evil or crazy or ignorant and ‘we’ need a candidate who sees the threat and can alleviate it,” said Matt Motyl, a political psychologist at the University of Illinois at Chicago who is studying how the 2016 presidential candidates speak. “He appeals to the masses and makes them feel powerful again: ‘We’ need to build a wall on the Mexican border — not ‘I,’ but ‘we.’ ”
In another pattern, Mr. Trump tends to attack a person rather than an idea or a situation, like calling political opponents “stupid” (at least 30 times), “horrible” (14 times), “weak” (13 times) and other names, and criticizing foreign leaders, journalists and so-called anchor babies. He bragged on Thursday about psyching out Jeb Bush by repeatedly calling him “low-energy,” but he spends far less time contrasting Mr. Bush’s policies with his own proposals, which are scant.
And on Friday night in Raleigh, he mocked people who reportedly did not contact the authorities with concerns about the California shooting suspects for fear of racial profiling.
“Can anybody be that dumb?” Mr. Trump said. “We have become so politically correct that we don’t know what the hell we’re doing. We don’t know what we’re doing.”
The specter of violence looms over much of his speech, which is infused with words like kill, destroy and fight. For a man who speaks off the cuff, he always remembers to bring up the Islamic State’s “chopping off heads.” And he has expressed enthusiasm for torturing enemies beyond waterboarding. Last month, after several men hit a Black Lives Matter protester at one of his rallies, Mr. Trump said, “Maybe he should have been roughed up.”
“Such statements and accusations make him seem like a guy who can and will cut through all the b.s. and do what in your heart you know is right — and necessary,” said Michael Kazin, a historian at Georgetown University, echoing the slogan that Barry Goldwater used in his 1964 presidential campaign.
And Mr. Trump uses rhetoric to erode people’s trust in facts, numbers, nuance, government and the news media, according to specialists in political rhetoric. “Nobody knows,” he likes to declare, where illegal immigrants are coming from or the rate of increase of health care premiums under the Affordable Care Act, even though government agencies collect and publish this information. He insists that Mr. Obama wants to accept 250,000 Syrian migrants, even though no such plan exists, and repeats discredited rumors that thousands of Muslims were cheering in New Jersey during the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. He promises to “bomb the hell” out of enemies — invoking Hiroshima and Nagasaki — and he says he would attack his political opponents “10 times as hard” as they criticize him.
(Mr. Trump, who also pledges to build up the military to show American toughness, will hold a rally on Monday on the aircraft carrier Yorktown in South Carolina to commemorate the anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor.)
And as much as he likes the word “attack,” the Times analysis shows, he often uses it to portray himself as the victim of cable news channels and newspapers that, he says, do not show the size of his crowds.
Mr. Trump declined a request to be interviewed for this article.
This pattern of elevating emotional appeals over rational ones is a rhetorical style that historians, psychologists and political scientists placed in the tradition of political figures like Goldwater, George Wallace, Joseph McCarthy, Huey Long and Pat Buchanan, who used fiery language to try to win favor with struggling or scared Americans. Several historians watched Mr. Trump’s speeches last week, at the request of The Times, and observed techniques — like vilifying groups of people and stoking the insecurities of his audiences — that they associate with Wallace and McCarthy.
“His entire campaign is run like a demagogue’s — his language of division, his cult of personality, his manner of categorizing and maligning people with a broad brush,” said Jennifer Mercieca, an expert in American political discourse at Texas A&M University. “If you’re an illegal immigrant, you’re a loser. If you’re captured in war, like John McCain, you’re a loser. If you have a disability, you’re a loser. It’s rhetoric like Wallace’s — it’s not a kind or generous rhetoric.”
“And then there are the winners, most especially himself, with his repeated references to his wealth and success and intelligence,” said Ms. Mercieca, noting a particular remark of Mr. Trump’s on Monday in Macon, Ga. (“When you’re really smart, when you’re really, really smart like I am — it’s true, it’s true, it’s always been true, it’s always been true.”)
“Part of his argument is that if you believe in American exceptionalism, you should vote for me,” Ms. Mercieca said.
Historically, demagogues have flourished when they tapped into the grievances of citizens and then identified and maligned outside foes, as McCarthy did with attacking Communists, Wallace with pro-integration northerners and Mr. Buchanan with cultural liberals. These politicians used emotional language — be it “segregation forever” or accusatory questions over the Communist Party — to persuade Americans to pin their anxieties about national security, jobs, racial diversity and social trends on enemy forces.
A significant difference between Mr. Trump and 20th-century American demagogues is that many of them, especially McCarthy and Wallace, were charmless public speakers. Mr. Trump, by contrast, is an energetic and charismatic speaker who can be entertaining and ingratiating with his audiences. There is a looseness to his language that sounds almost like water-cooler talk or neighborly banter, regardless of what it is about.
For some historians, this only makes him more effective, because demagogy is more palatable when it is leavened with a smile and joke. Highlighting that informality, one of his most frequently used words is “guy” — which he said 91 times last week and has used to describe President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, a stranger cheering him on at a rally and a celebrity friend.
“His relaxed, jokey tone makes statements about his resolve to solve every problem because he knows what’s right and has the energy to do it more persuasive,” said Mr. Kazin of Georgetown, who described Mr. Trump’s idea for a database of Muslims in the United States as insidious but also said he found Mr. Trump amusing at points.
Over many decades, Mr. Trump’s career as both a real estate developer and a celebrity has been infused with language described as divisive, even racially charged. In the 1980s, it was with advertisements condemning the young men, four of them black and one Latino, accused of marauding through Central Park and raping a jogger. Just over a decade ago, it was the controversy during the first season of his reality show “The Apprentice,” in which he played a boardroom billionaire who fired people. He and other cast members clashed with Omarosa Manigault, a black woman who claimed someone had called her a racial slur and suggested that Mr. Trump had been insensitive.
Mr. Trump has said he will tear into anyone who tries to take him on, and he presents himself as someone who is always right in his opinions — even prophetic, a visionary. He repeatedly insists that he alone predicted the rise of Osama bin Laden in 2001 (despite the fact that the Bin Laden network had attacked two United States embassies and the U.S.S. Cole in the three years before). “I said, ‘We better be careful, that’s gonna happen, it’s gonna be a big thing,’ and it certainly is a big thing,” Mr. Trump has said of what he wrote about the Al Qaeda leader in 2000.
It is the sort of trust-me-and-only-me rhetoric that, according to historians, demagogues have used to insist that they have unique qualities that can lead the country through turmoil. Mr. Trump often makes that point when he criticizes his Republican rivals, though he also pretends that he is not criticizing them.
“All of ’em are weak, they’re just weak,” Mr. Trump said in New Hampshire on Tuesday of his fellow candidates. “I think they’re weak, generally, you want to know the truth. But I won’t say that, because I don’t want to get myself, I don’t want to have any controversies. So I refuse to say that they’re weak generally, O.K.? Some of them are fine people. But they are weak.”
Las posibilidades cada vez mayores de que Donald J. Trump resulte elegido como el candidato presidencial del partido Republicano han dejado perplejos a los medios, los politólogos, los donantes, los encuestadores e incluso a su propio partido.
Trump no es un misterio (de hecho, es todo lo contrario), pero su popularidad, la conexión emocional que sus seguidores sienten hacia él y su aparente indestructibilidad como candidato, sí son un misterio.
Y a pesar del impredecible futuro de Trump como figura política, es necesario entender las raíces de su éxito; sobretodo para los líderes del partido Republicano, quienes han tratado de aprovechar el fenómeno Trump sin destruir al partido en el proceso.
David Berg, profesor de psiquiatría en la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad de Yale, observa que las amenazas a la seguridad percibidas por muchos votantes ahora vienen “tanto del interior (por ejemplo, el cambio demográfico, la codicia de Wall Street, la inmigración, las consecuencias de la desigualdad de ingresos), como de fuera (el desorden internacional, ISIS, China, Rusia)”.
Además, Trump apela al enojo y al descontento de muchos votantes; Berg observa que: “Muchos en este país están cansados de que su comportamiento y libertad de expresión se vean limitados por las ‘sensibilidades’ cambiantes del mundo moderno. A muchos les gustaría ‘responderle’ a Putin y los chinos (ni qué decir de ISIS) con la creencia de que la confrontación y la beligerancia convertirán al mundo en un lugar más seguro”.
John Gartner, profesor de psiquiatría en la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad Johns Hopkins, ve a Trump como un ejemplo por excelencia de un personaje estadounidense específico: el emprendedor dominante, arriesgado y carismático.
Gartner es autor de dos libros: “The Hypomanic Edge” y “In Search of Bill Clinton: A Psychological Biography”, en los que propone el concepto de “una forma genética de manía leve” para describir a reconocidos personajes estadounidenses que van desde Alexander Hamilton a Andrew Carnegie, y de Clinton a Donald Trump.
Este estado leve o subclínico —“que no por ello deja de ser una enfermedad. Es un temperamento”— es característico de muchos de los más exitosos hombres de Estados Unidos, sostiene Gartner. Y menciona algunas de sus características distintivas:
“Es un hombre lleno de ideas. Tiene objetivos claros, es impaciente e imparable. Canaliza su energía para lograr ambiciones totalmente grandilocuentes. Casi siempre duerme poco. Se siente brillante, especial, elegido, tal vez incluso destinado a cambiar el mundo. Puede ser eufórico. Se irrita con facilidad ante obstáculos insignificantes. Le gusta tomar riesgos. Derrocha en su vida personal y negocios. Tiene un comportamiento sexual inadecuado. Algunas veces es impulsivo y sus actos pueden tener consecuencias dolorosas”.
Trump hace que los votantes blancos de la clase trabajadora, su base de apoyo, “se sientan seguros”, me dijo Gartner en una entrevista telefónica.
A diferencia de la mayoría de los candidatos republicanos, Trump rechaza los recortes a la Seguridad Social y Medicare, programas que cuentan con todo el apoyo de la clase trabajadora blanca. Y, aunque le ha hecho guiños al movimiento antiaborto, no trata de imponer una moralidad sexual represiva (después de todo, se ha casado en tres ocasiones).
Gartner advierte que las cualidades que “pueden servir para ganar una elección no son lo mismo que tener capacidad para gobernar”. Los individuos hipomaniacos no necesariamente son buenos presidentes, dijo, salvo que su “energía, optimismo, e impulso” estén equilibrados por capacidades de las que, en su opinión, Trump podría carecer: “La capacidad de estudiar y evaluar, cooperar, ser meticuloso, cauteloso, poner atención al detalle, la habilidad de tomar una decisión firme con base en el razonamiento”.
Lise Van Susteren, psiquiatra forense en Washington, D.C., argumentó en una entrevista telefónica que Trump desempeña distintos roles para hombres y mujeres:
“Actualmente, las mujeres sienten una inseguridad enorme, se sienten amenazadas por la violencia aleatoria y generalizada de los tiroteos de Colorado y las decapitaciones de víctimas inocentes por parte de ISIS. Para las mujeres, Trump representa seguridad”.
Para los hombres blancos con pocos estudios, añadió Van Susteren:
“Los últimos ocho años han sido humillantes. Se han visto abatidos por factores económicos y no han podido ganar lo que necesitan, ya que creen que los trabajos que quieren son desempeñados por inmigrantes. Al mismo tiempo, estos votantes creen que nos están dando una paliza en el Medio Oriente. Para los hombres blancos, Trump ofrece la posibilidad de recuperar su hombría. Transmite una gran seguridad”.
W. Keith Campbell, profesor de psicología en la Universidad de Georgia, comentó en una entrevista que: “Los niveles de confianza están más bajos que nunca. La gente quiere un liderazgo fuerte, y Trump aparenta ser un líder fuerte”.
Campbell, quien se desmarcó de los “académicos liberales”, añadió que “cuando hablo con la gente común y corriente” la idea de “abrir las puertas a la inmigración cuando tanta gente está luchando por conseguir un buen trabajo parece políticamente insensata. ¿Por qué deberíamos traer a 200.000 sirios?”
Los opositores de Trump no reconocen que sus aparentes vulnerabilidades (su arrogancia, narcisismo, intimidación, su gritería) han sido fortalezas en una campaña primaria que ha desafiado lo políticamente correcto, tanto en la izquierda como en la derecha.
Por el momento, Trump encabeza las encuestas de votantes para las primarias republicanas en un 30 por ciento. Por sorprendente que parezca, tal vez es más sorprendente que más del 66 por ciento de los votantes republicanos encuestados eligieron a otro candidato.
Gane o pierda, Trump habrá ayudado a que millones de estadounidenses estén conscientes de su insatisfacción y los ha preparado para expresar su resentimiento en las urnas. Las emociones que ha despertado y de las que se ha beneficiado no desaparecerán.
Si Trump no logra nada más, habrá comprobado que es una bola de demolición capaz de echar por tierra los esfuerzos de los líderes republicanos, y sus consultores, para suavizar las aristas de su partido desde las elecciones de 2012.
Las posibilidades cada vez mayores de que Donald J. Trump resulte elegido como el candidato presidencial del partido Republicano han dejado perplejos a los medios, los politólogos, los donantes, los encuestadores e incluso a su propio partido.
Trump no es un misterio (de hecho, es todo lo contrario), pero su popularidad, la conexión emocional que sus seguidores sienten hacia él y su aparente indestructibilidad como candidato sí son un misterio.
Y a pesar del impredecible futuro de Trump como figura política, es necesario entender las raíces de su éxito; sobretodo para los líderes del partido Republicano, quienes han tratado de aprovechar el fenómeno Trump sin destruir al partido en el proceso.
David Berg, profesor de psiquiatría en la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad de Yale, observa que las amenazas a la seguridad percibidas por muchos votantes ahora vienen
Además, Trump apela al enojo y al descontento de muchos votantes; Berg observa que:
John Gartner, profesor de psiquiatría en la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad Johns Hopkins, ve a Trump como un ejemplo por excelencia de un personaje estadounidense específico: el emprendedor dominante, arriesgado y carismático.
Gartner es autor de dos libros: “The Hypomanic Edge” y “In Search of Bill Clinton: A Psychological Biography”, en los que propone el concepto de “una forma genética de manía leve” para describir a reconocidos personajes estadounidenses que van desde Alexander Hamilton a Andrew Carnegie, y de Clinton a Donald Trump.
Este estado leve o subclínico — “que no por ello deja de ser una enfermedad. Es un temperamento”— es característico de muchos de los más exitosos hombres de Estados Unidos, sostiene Gartner. Y menciona algunas de sus características distintivas:
Trump hace que los votantes blancos de la clase trabajadora, su base de apoyo, “se sientan seguros”, me dijo Gartner en una entrevista telefónica.
A diferencia de la mayoría de los candidatos republicanos, Trump rechaza recortes a la Seguridad Social y Medicare, programas que cuentan con todo el apoyo de la clase trabajadora blanca. Y, aunque le ha hecho guiños al movimiento antiaborto, no trata de imponer una moralidad sexual represiva (después de todo, se ha casado en tres ocasiones).
Gartner advierte que las cualidades que “pueden servir para ganar una elección no son lo mismo que tener capacidad para gobernar”. Los individuos hipomaniacos no necesariamente son buenos presidentes, dijo, salvo que su “energía, optimismo, e impulso” estén equilibrados por capacidades de las que, en su opinión, Trump podría carecer:
Lise Van Susteren, psiquiatra forense en Washington, D.C., argumentó en una entrevista telefónica que Trump desempeña distintos roles para hombres y mujeres:
Para los hombres blancos con pocos estudios, añadió Van Susteren:
W. Keith Campbell, profesor de psicología en la Universidad de Georgia, hizo notar en una entrevista que:
Campbell, quien se desmarcó de los “académicos liberales”, añadió que “cuando hablo con la gente común y corriente” la idea de “abrir las puertas a la inmigración cuando tanta gente está luchando por conseguir un buen trabajo parece políticamente insensata. ¿Por qué deberíamos traer a 200.000 sirios?”
Los opositores de Trump no reconocen que sus aparentes vulnerabilidades (su arrogancia, narcisismo, intimidación, su gritería) han sido fortalezas en una campaña primaria que ha desafiado lo políticamente correcto, tanto en la izquierda como en la derecha.
Por el momento, Trump encabeza las encuestas de votantes para las primarias republicanas en un 30 por ciento. Por sorprendente que parezca, tal vez es más sorprendente que más del 66 por ciento de los votantes republicanos encuestados eligieron a otro candidato.
Gane o pierda, Trump habrá ayudado a que millones de estadounidenses estén conscientes de su insatisfacción y los ha preparado para expresar su resentimiento en las urnas. Las emociones que ha despertado y de las que se ha beneficiado no desaparecerán.
Si Trump no logra nada más, habrá comprobado que es una bola de demolición capaz de echar por tierra los esfuerzos de los líderes republicanos, y sus consultores, para suavizar las aristas de su partido desde las elecciones de 2012.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. The F.B.I. said that the married couple who killed 14 people last week in San Bernardino, Calif., had long been “radicalized” and had practiced at a target range just days earlier. Above, their arrival in Chicago in July 2014. The attack now appears to have been inspired though not directed by the Islamic State.
_____
2. Republican campaign rhetoric turned incendiary, as Donald Trump said the U.S. should no longer allow Muslims to enter the country. “Our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life,” he said in a statement issued hours after an Iowa poll showed Ted Cruz ahead of him for the first time.
_____
3. The uproar after Mr. Trump’s statement drew attention away from the Republican fracture over President Obama’s call in his Oval Office address Sunday for people on no-fly lists to be barred from buying guns. Mr. Trump, John Kasich and Chris Christie said the idea had merit, but Marco Rubio and Jeb Bush argued that the no-fly list was too flawed to be a guide.
_____
4. The Supreme Court appeared to be staying out of the debate over gun control. The justices, who have ruled twice in recent years that citizens have a fundamental right to own guns, made their latest rejection of Second Amendment challenges to gun control laws, declining to hear an appeal over a Chicago suburb’s ban on assault weapons.
_____
5. In Mr. Obama’s Sunday address, he also defended using airstrikes but no ground troops in the fight against the Islamic State. Entering into “a long and costly ground war,” he said, would only play into militants’ hands. Indeed, the Islamic State’s recruiting propaganda is rife with references to apocalyptic prophecy about a last great battle and end times.
_____
6. Good news: Global emissions of greenhouse gases appear to be falling slightly this year after rising only slightly last year. Experts are debating the tantalizing possibility that humanity has turned a corner in the fight against global warming. The news came at the international climate talks in Paris.
_____
7. Arnold Schwarzenegger joined the climate negotiators in Paris. In 2006, as governor of California, he signed a cap-and-trade system into law for the state — which happens to be the world’s 10th largest economy and among its top 20 emitters. California’s current governor, Jerry Brown, was also at the talks, seeking to build on the system and calling deniers “troglodytes.”
_____
8. Attorney General Loretta Lynch announced a civil rights investigation into the Chicago Police Department. The announcement came after a dash-cam video of a police shooting that was released under court order showed a scene at odds with multiple police accounts at the time. Many critics have accused the city of a cover-up.
_____
9. Holly Woodlawn, a transgender star of Andy Warhol’s films, died of cancer at 69. She inspired a Lou Reed song you might recognize: “Holly came from Miami, F-L-A, hitchhiked her way across the U.S.A., plucked her eyebrows on the way, shaved her legs and then he was a she. She says, ‘Hey, babe, take a walk on the wild side.’”
_____
10. The Los Angeles rapper Kendrick Lamar led Grammy hopefuls with 11 nominations across nine categories, mostly thanks to his album “To Pimp a Butterfly,” a critical and popular success. He has stiff competition for best album: Taylor Swift’s “1989,” which also earned nominations in six other categories. The Weeknd also earned seven nominations.
_____
11. Lastly, look for big changes in high-ticket auctions. Sotheby’s hired Marc Porter, one of the top players at its archrival, Christie’s, though there’s a noncompete period of about a year before he can start. Sotheby’s is rebuilding itself, trying to regain market share lost to Christie’s, which has more than quadrupled sales since 2004 with high-profile events like selling Elizabeth Taylor’s jewelry.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s the Weekend Briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• California rampage’s aftermath.
The married couple who killed 14 people in a mass shooting last week in San Bernardino, Calif., had long been “radicalized,” the F.B.I. says, and was inspired, though not directed by, the Islamic State.
Silicon Valley’s efforts to crack down on the use of social media by terrorists are being criticized as weak, while the U.S. is planning to change its terrorism alert system.
And the Supreme Court’s refusal to hear a Second Amendment challenge to a Chicago suburb’s ban on semiautomatic assault weapons shows at least tacit approval of strict gun control laws.
• Trump’s latest firestorm.
The leading contender for the Republican presidential nomination, Donald J. Trump, called for a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslims entering the country, drawing condemnation from his rivals.
The statement comes as a new poll shows Ted Cruz erasing Mr. Trump’s lead in Iowa.
• Change in America’s whitest state.
Lewiston, Maine’s second-largest city, has a large population of refugees, mostly Muslims from war-torn Somalia.
Today’s mayoral election could define the city’s future amid the demographic change.
• Chasing a climate deal.
The number of automobiles on the world’s roads is on pace to double — to more than two billion — by the year 2030.
It is likely that most of those cars will be burning carbon-emitting gasoline or diesel fuels. Here’s the latest from the U.N.-sponsored climate talks.
• On the campaign trail.
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont is in Baltimore today to meet with community and religious leaders. He’ll also tour the neighborhood where Freddie Gray was arrested before dying in police custody, and he will appear on “The Tonight Show” on NBC.
And Hillary Clinton, who has been criticized for her ties to the financial industry, received crucial support from Senator Elizabeth Warren.
• Capitol Hill’s deadline.
Congress faces a Friday deadline for funding federal agencies and keeping the government open. A House-Senate agreement is expected this week.
• Mideast resolutions?
For the first time since the Syria conflict began nearly five years ago, armed and political factions that oppose President Bashar al-Assad are meeting to create a common position from which to negotiate with the government.
In Yemen, the government and Houthi rebels could start peace talks next week, as both sides appear willing to accept a cease-fire in their nine-month-old war.
• Biden in Ukraine.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. addressed Parliament today, urging leaders to fulfill the promise of the popular revolution that pushed out a pro-Moscow government last year.
His visit also reaffirms U.S. support for Ukraine in its war with pro-Russian separatists, even as Washington tries to cooperate with Moscow on Syria.
• Year of mercy.
Pope Francis pushed open today the Holy Door of St. Peter’s Basilica to formally begin the 12-month Jubilee of Mercy, to encourage pilgrimages.
BUSINESS
• Japan’s latest recession turns out not to have been a recession at all. The government said today that the economy grew at a relatively strong pace last quarter.
• The Federal Trade Commission is suing to block Staples from making its more than $6 billion proposed acquisition of its rival office supplier Office Depot.
• Many 401(k) plans include the stocks of gun manufacturers, but options are growing for investors who do not want such companies in their portfolios.
• Wall Street stocks are weaker. European and Asian markets finished sharply lower.
NOTEWORTHY
• “Airpocalypse.”
Officials in Beijing have declared that the thick smog blanketing the city was bad enough to require a red alert, the first time they have raised the alarm to its highest level, angering and confusing residents.
• Teacher at Yale resigns.
A Yale lecturer who was criticized for challenging students to stand up for their right to decide what Halloween costumes to wear, even if they were culturally offensive, has resigned from teaching at the college.
• Sports roundup.
The Dallas Cowboys defeated the Washington Redskins, 19-16, on a 54-yard field goal with nine seconds to play, on Monday Night Football.
In a rare move, Cuba will allow a defector into the U.S. during a Major League Baseball tour. And the league will investigate an accusation of domestic violence made against Aroldis Chapman, the All-Star closer for the Cincinnati Reds.
• What to read?
More than 80 book critics from outside Britain got together and ranked the 100 greatest British novels.
At the top: 5. Jane Eyre (Charlotte Brontë); 4. Great Expectations (Charles Dickens); 3. Mrs. Dalloway (Virginia Woolf); 2. To the Lighthouse (Virginia Woolf); 1. Middlemarch (George Eliot).
• On TV.
Jon Stewart returned to “The Daily Show” on Monday night, as a guest, to push for renewing a health law that helps 9/11 rescue workers.
And our band of critics names the “Best TV Shows of 2015.”
BACK STORY
It has been about 50 years since the “one person-one vote” principle — enshrined in the U.S. in the 14th Amendment’s equal protection clause — was reaffirmed by a ruling that state legislative districts must contain about equal numbers of people.
Before that, district numbers could vary widely, which gave more power to rural white voters than to those in more diverse cities.
Today, the Supreme Court will hear a challenge to the law and a related case.
For decades, most states have counted all people who live in a district — just like the census from which they get their data — even if they are not eligible to vote. (Officials represent everyone in a district, not just voters.)
Counting all people increases the voting power in areas with large numbers of residents who cannot vote, like legal immigrants who are not citizens, undocumented immigrants, children or people with felony records. Those places tend to be urban and to vote Democratic.
Now the justices are being asked to define the meaning of “one person, one vote.”
It’s this term’s most important case on voting, and the decision, expected in June, could sway elections across the U.S.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
Much of the reaction to Donald Trump’s call “for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States” casts him as a cynical populist who is simply supplying the sorts of proposals an Islamophobic electorate demands. By this view, we’re learning about the ugly side of America. But economics offers a different and arguably more optimistic lens for interpreting Mr. Trump’s statement. And it suggests that his statement is less a calculated attempt at feeding a demand for bigotry and more an effort to fuel the hunger for authenticity.
Here’s the crucial idea: It’s not that the American electorate is looking for prejudiced policies. Rather, it’s tired of career politicians and is looking for a leader who breaks the mold. I’m not sure exactly what it is that people are looking for, but let’s call it authenticity. Every politician could claim to be “authentic,” but the truth is, we know that most of them are just saying that to get our vote. This is where the economic theory of signaling comes in.
How can you convince voters that you are in fact the real deal — a trustworthy person who speaks his mind — rather than yet another poll-driven politico? The answer is that you do something that a poll-driven politico would never do, such as making a statement that will alienate many voters. Mr. Trump’s call is outrageous, and it’s politically risky. But that riskiness can be a feature, not a bug. It’s devised to make you infer that he’s not like other politicians.
I’ve long called this the Ventura theory of politics, after the former professional wrestler Jesse “The Body” Ventura, who was elected governor of Minnesota in 1998 as a third-party candidate, after asking people not to “vote for politics as usual.” Soon after his election, Mr. Ventura gave an interview for Playboy magazine in which he said that “organized religion is a sham and a crutch for weak-minded people who need strength in numbers.” It’s not a view that I subscribe to, but more important, it’s not a view that any electorally minded politician would ever admit to.
Given Mr. Ventura’s rising political star, the only explanation for his statement was that he both believed it to be true and was pathologically honest. The statement was politically risky, and offended many voters. Yet that’s the point, and from that day onward, I simply believed any statement that Mr. Ventura made, because that single episode made it hard to believe that he was a poll-driven politician.
An economist recognizes this as the theory of signaling. It’s the same logic that biologists speculate leads male peacocks to grow beautiful but useless tail feathers. Brightly colored feathers are a useful signal of health, because only a healthy male could afford to divert energy to growing them. A result is that peahens, looking for a healthy mate, are attracted to males with attractive but pointless plumage. Likewise, Mr. Trump’s statement wasn’t a serious attempt at articulating policy; it was the political equivalent of a peacock’s feathers, although rather than try to signal his reproductive fitness, he was trying to signal his authenticity.
The good news in this story is that behavior that appears superficial or thoughtless may actually reflect something more important. A peahen may look shallow as she chases the male with the most colorful tail feathers, but in reality, she’s looking for something more serious — a healthy mate. And likewise, it may be that a share of Mr. Trump’s supporters are not drawn to his nativist policies, but rather are looking for something more serious, like a politician who is willing to present his authentic self.
The Ventura strategy is a risky one. Believe me, I’ve tried it, and it means that date night with an economist can be an unusual experience. For sure, I might try to tell my partner that her little black dress looks lovely, but she understands that this is the sort of thing that all men say and so dismisses such compliments. Realizing this, I’ve tried the Ventura strategy: Begin by saying that her lipstick is smudged, so that she knows that I’m the truth-telling type, and then tell her that I like her dress. I don’t think I violate any confidences in revealing that this doesn’t always work well.
This simple interpretation of Mr. Trump’s antics is that he’s betting his campaign on H.L. Mencken’s claim that no one “has ever lost money by underestimating the intelligence of the great masses of the plain people; nor has anyone ever lost public office thereby.” Perhaps this explains some fringe of the electorate, but I think that it sells the American people short.
The economic theory of signaling tells a more optimistic story: Mr. Trump’s outrageous statements signal that he has some other political virtue some voters value. But if authenticity is more important to voters than specific policies, we’re left with an unusual paradox: Some of his supporters may be willing to vote for what his policies signal about his personal character, even as they find these policies repugnant. And if Mr. Trump loses support over the next few weeks, it will reveal the other truth: Risky strategies often fail.
Repudiated across much of the political spectrum but defended on conservative talk radio, Donald J. Trump on Tuesday stood by his call to block all Muslims from entering the United States. He cast it as a temporary move in response to terrorism and invoked President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s authorization of the detention of Japanese, German and Italian immigrants during World War II as precedent.
Critics including both the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, a Republican, and the Senate minority leader, Harry Reid, a Democrat, assailed Mr. Trump’s proposal as self-defeating and un-American.
“Tell Donald Trump: Hate is not an American value,” Hillary Clinton wrote on Twitter. The “super PAC” supporting Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, unveiled its first ad attacking Mr. Trump, and the White House said Mr. Trump had disqualified himself from serving as president.
But the castigation was far from unanimous: Mr. Trump was applauded by some conservative commentators, who said he reflected the electorate’s views more honestly than the party’s leaders. “Anyone who thinks @realDonaldTrump comments will hurt him don’t know the temperature of the American ppl,” the radio host Laura Ingraham wrote on Twitter.
Senator Ted Cruz, who is vying for much the same base of support that Mr. Trump now enjoys, disavowed his proposal but pointedly declined to join in the scolding. “I commend Donald Trump for standing up and focusing America’s attention on the need to secure our borders,” Mr. Cruz said at the Capitol.
And former Senator Rick Santorum, the winner of the 2012 Iowa caucus, seemed to embrace Mr. Trump’s impulse but differed on the details. “I’ve proposed actual concrete things and immigration law that would have — not the effect of banning all Muslims, but a lot of them because we need to get rid of the visa lottery system, which is the way in which a lot of radicals have come into this country,” he said on Sirius XM’s “Breitbart News Daily.”
Mr. Trump, who has set the tone in a Republican presidential race he has led for months, defended and expanded upon his proposal in a string of television interviews Tuesday morning.
In a sometimes tense exchange with Joe Scarborough on the MSNBC program “Morning Joe,” he insisted that fears of terrorism had made policing difficult in places like London and in Paris, the site of the Islamic State attacks on Nov. 13 that killed 130 people.
“Paris is no longer the same city it was,” he said, before adding, without citing any evidence: “They have sections in Paris that are radicalized where the police refuse to go there. They’re petrified. The police refuse to go in there. We have places in London and other places that are so radicalized that the police are afraid for their own lives.”
Mr. Trump’s statement about Paris has no basis in fact: There are no districts there or outside Paris where the police have said they are unwilling to go. The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, meanwhile, said that Mr. Trump’s claim about his city was “complete and utter nonsense.” Saying crime was falling in London and New York, he added: “The only reason I wouldn’t go to some parts of New York is the real risk of meeting Donald Trump.”
In the same MSNBC interview, Mr. Trump cited Roosevelt’s classification of thousands of Japanese, Germans and Italians living in the United States during the war as “enemy aliens.” He said he was not endorsing something as drastic as the camps where American citizens of Japanese descent were interned. Instead, he referred to three proclamations by which Roosevelt authorized government detention of immigrants, and which led to the internment of thousands of noncitizen Japanese, Germans and Italians.
“This is a president highly respected by all; he did the same thing,” Mr. Trump said. The nation was at war in the 1940s, he said, and it is now “at war with radical Islam.”
On ABC, Mr. Trump clarified that his proposal would not apply to United States citizens. “If a person is a Muslim, goes overseas and comes back, they can come back,” he said. “They’re a citizen. That’s different. But we have to figure things out.”
There was sweeping criticism of Mr. Trump’s remarks from European officials and from Democrats.
“The fact is that what Donald Trump said yesterday disqualifies him from serving as president, and for Republican candidates for president to stand by their pledge to support Mr. Trump, that in and of itself is disqualifying,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, told reporters at his daily briefing.
Mr. Reid, the Senate Democratic leader, went further. “Trump is saying out loud what other Republicans merely suggest,” he said on the Senate floor.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. told Bloomberg News on Tuesday evening that because of Mr. Trump’s “dangerous” comments, if he wins the nomination Mrs. Clinton will “win in a walk.”
Mr. Trump’s proposal on Monday came hours after a poll was released showing that Mr. Cruz had overtaken him for the lead in Iowa, and a day after President Obama gave a rare Oval Office address to discuss fears of terrorism after the attacks in Paris and in San Bernardino, Calif. — a speech Republicans criticized as insufficiently reassuring.
“Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life,” Mr. Trump wrote in a statement.
It was the latest controversy from a candidate whose campaign has been marked by harsh comments about some immigrant groups since he entered the race in June. Despite repeated and often hopeful predictions from his rivals and political analysts that his supporters would abandon him, such remarks have appeared to cleave Mr. Trump’s backers closer to him.
“We have to get a hand around a very serious problem,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC. “And it’s getting worse. And you will have more World Trade Centers and you will have more, bigger than the World Trade Center, if we don’t toughen up, smarten up, and use our heads.”
Reaction from Republicans was mixed.
The television ad from Right to Rise, the super PAC supporting Mr. Bush, was its first mocking Mr. Trump, calling him too “impulsive and reckless” for the Oval Office. But it muted the force of the blow by also criticizing two other primary contenders, Mr. Cruz and Senator Marco Rubio. The ad did not specifically cite Mr. Trump’s proposed Muslim ban.
Many Republican leaders have struggled with how to deal with Mr. Trump, who has tapped into a deep well of anger and frustration among voters who polls show have lost trust in their elected officials and in many institutions. But they are also concerned about the impact that Mr. Trump will have on the party’s chances of recapturing the White House.
Some spoke out, saying his ideas needed to be rejected.
“This is not conservatism,” said Mr. Ryan, the House speaker and the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 2012. “What was proposed yesterday is not what this party stands for and, more importantly, it’s not what this country stands for.”
“Some of our best and biggest allies in this struggle and fight against radical Islamic terror are Muslims, the vast, vast, vast majority of whom are people who believe in pluralism, freedom, democracy, individual rights,” Mr. Ryan said.
Former Vice President Dick Cheney, said in a radio interview late Monday that “this whole notion that somehow we need to say ‘no more Muslims’ and just ban a whole religion goes against everything we stand for and believe in.” And the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, noted that the idea would bar American allies like King Abdullah of Jordan from visiting the country, calling it “completely and totally unworkable.”
Donald, come home.
That was the message on Monday night in Queens, as two dozen men finished their prayers in a basement mosque beneath a discount store on Hillside Avenue in the Jamaica neighborhood, just a block from where Donald J. Trump grew up.
They were saddened, frightened and dumbfounded by Mr. Trump’s latest declaration while seeking the Republican nomination for president — that in reaction to the killings in San Bernardino, Calif., last week, he wanted to ban all Muslims from entering the country until the nation’s leaders can “figure out what is going on and why.”
And they had a request.
“People always ask, ‘Where are the moderate Muslims?’ ” Ali Najmi, 31, a defense lawyer and a co-founder of the Muslim Democratic Club of New York, said during a discussion after prayers at the Arafa Islamic Center. “We’re right here; we’re right in Donald Trump’s neighborhood. He needs to come back home.”
For all his Manhattan pomp, Mr. Trump is a son of Queens. His father, Fred C. Trump, was the son of German immigrants, and he began his career as a developer with a house in Woodhaven. Donald Trump grew up in a stately mansion with columns on Midland Parkway, in the wealthy enclave of Jamaica Estates, which Fred Trump partially built. Although he moved on from the borough, he frequently mentioned his experiences of taking the F train on Hillside Avenue into Manhattan, and how Queens gave him perspective on New York City’s diversity.
Now, not far from Mr. Trump’s childhood street, a dozen mosques are spread out along Hillside Avenue — there are 93 in Queens, one-third of the city’s total, according to Tony Carnes, the editor of “A Journey Through N.Y.C. Religions,” which collects data on faiths. In all, Mr. Carnes said, there are 770,000 Muslims in the New York metropolitan area.
Many of them make their homes in Queens. There are close to 64,000 Bangladeshi and Pakistani immigrants in the borough, according to the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey from 2014; many of them are Muslim. The Muslim community also includes Afghans, Albanians, Bosnians and more. Halal meat shops and barbecue restaurants are bustling in neighborhoods like Jamaica, Jackson Heights and Astoria.
“What is a Muslim? You will see Muslims from every race here,” Mohammed Tohin, 47, said at the Arafa Islamic Center.
“You’ll see white, black, Asian-American,” added Mr. Tohin, who works in real estate and is a member of Community Board 8. “So who is he pointing at — that’s the question I’m asking. Is it me? Is it someone white? Is it the brother born here?”
Across the borough’s neighborhoods, Muslims responded to Mr. Trump’s comments with hurt and surprise.
“I love this country, 100 percent,” said Mohammed Rana, 39, an assistant imam at the Islamic Center of Jackson Heights, who is from Bangladesh. When he heard people blaming Muslims for violence, especially after the attacks in Paris and California, he said: “If people go and do something bad, we are very sad. Muslims never accept these kinds of things.”
If Mr. Trump were to have attended the post-prayer discussion on Monday, he would have heard Yusuf Abdul Wadud speak in a thick New York accent. Mr. Wadud, 59, was born in the United States and raised Catholic. He converted to Islam more than 30 years ago.
“Donald Trump is preaching hatred, fear and separation,” Mr. Wadud said. “ISIS is hatred. Islam is love. No Muslim would ever pick up a gun and shoot people.
“Donald Trump is using this because his crowd wants to hear this. Donald Trump is playing right into the hand of ISIS.”
Shaukat Choudhury, 70, who for 46 years has lived on the same street, Midland Parkway, as Mr. Trump’s childhood home, said that at first he could not take the remarks seriously. “I very much laughed out loud,” he said. “I said, ‘Here goes Trump — again!’ ”
But Mr. Najmi was offended because he, too, was born and raised in Queens. His parents were Muslim immigrants from Pakistan, and this fall, he lost his bid to become the first person of South Asian ancestry to be elected to the City Council. He graduated from Oberlin College and from the law school of the City University of New York.
On Twitter on Monday, he invited Mr. Trump back for some halal kebabs and a cup of chai tea in the old neighborhood.
“I’m outraged that anyone born and raised in Queens would say something like that,” said Mr. Najmi, who grew up in Glen Oaks, Queens. “Especially since Queens County is home to so many immigrants — it’s the symbol of immigrants in America.”
Alhaz Mowlana A. Kalam spoke in front of Kabab King, a popular restaurant on Diversity Plaza, in Jackson Heights. When told of Mr. Trump’s comments, he shook his head. “It’s crazy, it’s crazy,” he said.
And he had another thought for Mr. Trump. “Look at all the mosques in this area,” he said. “We are so many that we are praying on the street. He’s not going to be president if he says something like this.”
Public opinion surveyed in the weeks before the San Bernardino, Calif., attack show that those voters who believe Muslims are dangerous have especially favorable views of Donald Trump.
What is somewhat more surprising is how Republican voters have efficiently sorted themselves on this issue among the many Republican candidates running for the nomination. Even before Mr. Trump called for a “total and complete shutdown” of Muslim entry into the United States, his supporters were in favor of the move. His call is unlikely to offend his strongest supporters, and in fact may have been an appeal to the pre-existing attitudes of his core constituency.
Public opinion data on attitudes toward Muslims collected over the last several years corroborate that Trump supporters already shared his views on that issue. The data show that a majority of Republicans view Muslims unfavorably and, according to the Pew Research Center, Republicans are cooler to Muslims than to other religious groups like Jews, Catholics and Buddhists.
To see how these anti-Muslim attitudes relate to support for Mr. Trump, I turned to data collected by YouGov from Nov. 19 through Nov. 23 — a little more than a week before the attack in San Bernardino. The survey of 2,000 people shows that Mr. Trump’s supporters are particularly suspicious of Muslims, and although the numbers get quite small, among all of the other candidates only Ted Cruz’s supporters look similar to Mr. Trump’s on this topic.
YouGov asked two questions about the threat of Islam on its final November survey. The first asked how serious a threat Muslims posed to the country. On average, 30 percent of Americans thought this group presented an “immediate and serious” threat, but there were large differences between Republicans and Democrats. Nearly half (46 percent) of Republicans believed Muslims were an immediate threat to the nation, while 23 percent of Democrats felt this way.
The second question asked what share of Muslims worldwide supported ISIS. Over all, about a third of the country thought more than half, most or all Muslims supported ISIS. Again there were large differences between the parties. Almost twice as many Republicans (45 percent) as Democrats (24 percent) believed a majority of Muslims supported ISIS.
Research by political scientists shows that there’s a strong correlation between people’s attitudes toward Muslims and their views of President Obama: Those who believe Muslims are dangerous have especially unfavorable ratings of the president.
Even bigger differences on the perceived threat of Muslims emerged within the Republican Party and across the candidates. For example, two-thirds of Mr. Trump’s supporters believed Muslims posed an immediate threat. The same is true among the smaller number of supporters of Mr. Cruz.
But supporters of Marco Rubio, Jeb Bush and Chris Christie were less inclined to believe Muslims posed an immediate threat. Less than one-third of their supporters fell into this category; a quarter of their supporters believed — 10 days before the California shootings — that Muslims as a group were less than a minor threat to the country. Supporters of Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz were unique in their strong beliefs about the potential dangers Muslims posed.
Another way to see the importance of Muslim attitudes for Mr. Trump’s voters is to examine how increasing support for him connects to escalating beliefs about a Muslim threat. The data show that nearly half of Republicans who think Muslims pose an immediate threat to the United States support Mr. Trump over other candidates in the race, while only 13 percent of Republicans who think Muslims are not a threat to the country choose him over the others. Likewise, Mr. Trump is winning a majority of G.O.P. primary voters who believe most Muslims worldwide support ISIS.
Over half of Mr. Trump’s primary supporters, before the San Bernardino attack, thought that Muslims posed an immediate threat to the United States and that most Muslims in the world supported ISIS.
MOUNT PLEASANT, S.C. — Just over six months ago, the Arthur Ravenel Jr. Bridge, which spans the Cooper River from here to Charleston, became a momentary symbol of healing as thousands of black and white South Carolinians marched together after the massacre of nine black churchgoers.
On Monday night, downriver from the bridge, a much different spectacle unfolded on the Yorktown, a permanently docked aircraft carrier from World War II that is usually a tourist attraction. For an hour, it was the stage for Donald J. Trump’s latest blast, and perhaps most provocative one.
Seizing on the anxieties of Americans after terrorist attacks by Islamic extremists in Paris and California, Mr. Trump, who is seeking the Republican Party’s presidential nomination, read a statement he had issued earlier in the day: “Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what the hell is going on,” he said. His words brought hundreds of his supporters to their feet and provoked extended applause, as well as repeated disruptions from protesters throughout the rally.
This community’s summer of unity seemed to have given way to a winter of rancor. But among Mr. Trump’s fans, there were signs of unease with the idea of closing off the country to one religion, and even the candidate himself did not play the card with his usual self-assurance.
Mr. Trump seemed less than comfortable with his own statement, reading it word for word and not in his typical extemporaneous style. He noted that he had Muslim friends, and repeatedly tied his statement to dubious polling about Muslim attitudes that he thought could justify his case for barring an entire faith from emigrating to America.
He was far more enthusiastic in dishing out his usual fare: highlighting his poll numbers (while ignoring a new poll putting Senator Ted Cruz ahead in Iowa), promoting the size of his crowds and excoriating the news media and his opponents.
If Mr. Trump is not heartfelt about his views on Islam, that may not make his comments, in the eyes of many, any less pernicious.
But it was not hard to find people at the speech who echoed Mr. Trump’s views on stopping Muslims from entering the United States. Some invoked their alarm over Shariah law and others denigrated Islam as a cult.
One woman walked back to the press pen after the rally to assure reporters that a batch of protesters who had repeatedly interrupted Mr. Trump’s speech had not been Charlestonians; Charleston, she explained, had been voted the friendliest city in America.
The woman, Susan Kemmerlin of Charleston, said in the next breath that she supported Mr. Trump’s proposal because “you can’t look at a Muslim and tell if they’re a terrorist or friendly.”
In the long line that snaked hundreds of yards through the parking lot before the speech and in the one afterward that eased out along the vessel’s gangway, it was more common to encounter complex views that quickly skipped over Islam to a more honest accounting about why Mr. Trump’s call resonated: an all-too-real sense of dread about future attacks, partisan anger with President Obama’s administration for not doing more to control who enters the country, and an expectation that all migration be tightly controlled.
“If you’re going to do it to one person, do it to all — make sure anyone coming into our country is vetted in the manner they need to be vetted,” said Tom Herold, a Mount Pleasant resident and Trump supporter.
“His stance is just Muslims,” shot back his girlfriend, Michele Insinger, who also lives here and is no Trump fan. “It’s discrimination.”
But Mr. Herold continued, “There are certain times that are going to require certain necessary actions.” He added, “We’re heading towards a time that, if we don’t do something different, we may be in a precarious position as a country. However, I think everyone should have the same treatment.”
A few steps away, Chris Arnold was leaving the first political event he ever attended — “it was kind of like a rock concert a little bit” — impressed with Mr. Trump. But Mr. Arnold was more taken with Mr. Trump’s contention that his wealth meant that he was not indebted to donors than with his stance on restricting Muslims. “That’s a little too much, a little over the edge,” Mr. Arnold said. “I just want to get the vetting process down. We need to redo that.”
Randall Horres, who came to the rally with his family, indulged in some shouting at the protesters who remained in the parking lot after the event had concluded. But he said his outrage was more driven toward government than toward Muslims.
“This thing in San Bernardino is proof positive of how broken our system is,” said Mr. Horres, who lives on John’s Island, S.C. He then quickly pivoted to the country’s border with Mexico, pointing to “a complete lack of faith in our government to do the vetting” of all immigrants.
Mr. Horres’ wife, Joanna, said the authorities should be able to stop those who come to the country intending to harm Americans. Asked how they could do that, she quickly responded: “That should be our government’s job to figure that out and protect us — and they’re not.”
Ann Hunter, who drove with her husband and 8-year-old son about 100 miles from the Columbia, S.C., area to see and hear Mr. Trump, said she only wanted to tighten security and keep out Muslims who intended to inflict violence on people.
“If they come to the country through regular means, the background checks are properly done and as far as we know there’s no tie to ISIS, they don’t hate America — just some common sense questions — then you can’t stop them all from coming here, that wouldn’t be right,” Ms. Hunter said.
At times, the gathering seemed little different than any other political rally in the South this time of year. The air was crisp and oyster roast-ready, the music was fit for a fraternity party — from yesterday’s “Shout” to today’s “Uptown Funk” — and the time-killing chatter ran more to the state of the University of South Carolina’s football program than to the Islamic State.
But it was hard to recall a moment since the weeks after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks when fear was so foremost in voters’ minds.
After nearly every attendee and protester had gone home, Muhiyidin d’Baha, a local organizer for Black Lives Matter, was striding across the darkened parking lot, the glow of the Ravenel Bridge one of the few sources of light.
Mr. d’Baha, whose father is Muslim and who is eyeing a State Senate seat, gestured at the bridge and in the direction of the city that helped propel slavery, the Civil War and more recently reconciliation. “You would think we’d learn from history,” he said.
To the Editor:
Re “Trump Wants to Block Entry of All Muslims” (front page, Dec. 8):
Donald Trump’s call to bar all Muslims from entering the United States is just the latest in a litany of scapegoating, dehumanizing and demonizing rhetoric in the presidential campaign. The list of groups singled out by candidates includes Muslims, refugees, immigrants, Latinos, African-Americans and gays.
While Mr. Trump and other candidates may have the safety and security of America in mind when they call for closing the borders, in reality their dangerous rhetoric is contributing to a climate in which hate-fueled violence is becoming all too commonplace.
The Planned Parenthood attack in Colorado Springs, the shooting of a Muslim immigrant taxi driver in Pittsburgh, and the shootings of five activists at a Black Lives Matter protest in Minneapolis did not happen in a vacuum. Every day, there are more reports of hate crimes and bias attacks against American Muslims. This is unacceptable.
To be clear, no single statement from the candidates is responsible for these incidents. But words have consequences, and the ugly rhetoric creates a climate in which hatred, bigotry and ultimately violence can result. It is time for the candidates to dial down their rhetoric before it leads America down a more dangerous path.
JONATHAN A. GREENBLATT
Chief Executive
Anti-Defamation League
New York
To the Editor:
In “Trump Wants to Block Entry of All Muslims,” you state that Donald Trump’s call to bar Muslims entry to the United States is “an extraordinary escalation of rhetoric aimed at voters’ fears about members of the Islamic faith.”
But how, exactly, is Mr. Trump’s latest call any more despicable — or any different, for that matter — than calls in recent weeks by both Jeb Bush and Ted Cruz to allow into the United States only those Syrian refugees who are Christian?
DESMOND J. M. WHITNEY
Minneapolis
To the Editor:
We are not a country of cowards. The United States was not built by people who hid behind walls and fences. Many of our ancestors crossed oceans to a strange new land, often escaping persecution because of their religion. We must not become the country that has to be escaped.
I don’t want to see my country become a gated community. We cannot allow this country to become some form of racist state. If it starts with Muslims, it can come to include us all.
This is not the time to be silent. Have confidence that we can find a way to defeat ISIS while still preserving who we are. If we allow the extremists to change us, then they win.
MARY A. LEWIS

Gibsonia, Pa.
To the Editor:
Re “Bizarre Responses to a Plea for Reason” (editorial, Dec. 8):
Our election process this year has reached a new low. It seems as though the Republican contenders have decided that the way to win this nomination is to preach to the worst characteristics in all of us. Hatred, fear-mongering, demagogy, religious persecution, xenophobia — these are the emotions that these candidates are pandering to.
I remember a time when a presidential contender asked us to elect him because he stood for the American ideal, for the humanity, morality and strength that America represented, not only to our way of life, but to the world. Since when is it O.K. to tell Americans it is perfectly all right to hate, to persecute or to vilify others who live within our borders?
This election has cast a shadow of shame over all of us.
DORIS FENIG

Boca Raton, Fla.
To the Editor:
Your editorial claims that Donald Trump “showed that there is nothing he won’t say or support to sow hatred.” While Mr. Trump has expanded awareness of his brand with outrageous statements throughout the campaign for the Republican nomination, is sowing hatred his goal? In fact, is winning the nomination, or the presidency, his goal?
I think not. I think Donald Trump’s goal is to be the focus of attention of as many people as possible. All-Donald-all-the-time is a business model, and we the people subsidize it with our attention. Our bad.
CHRIS WEINMANN

Norwich, Vt.
“You know how you make America great again?” Senator Lindsey Graham said on CNN Tuesday morning. “Tell Donald Trump to go to hell.”
Fine by me.
But before we give him that send-off, there’s a whole lot else we should tell him, not that he hears anything other than his own voice and the applause of people who mistake a trash-talking bully for a blunt-talking leader.
We should tell him that we’re on to him. We now fully realize that nothing he says — certainly not this dangerous claptrap about preventing all Muslims from entering the United States — is meant as an earnest proposal, as serious policy.
No, he’s just an addict whose drug of choice is attention, and he can’t get enough of it. He’s learned that if he presses the lever the right way, with the right provocation, out pops another hit of saturation media coverage, of all Trump all the time.
As the weeks and days go by, he has to press harder, escalating from the deportation of Mexicans to hallucinated street celebrations in Jersey City to the surveillance of mosques to this latest idiocy. What does he care if he’s likened to George Wallace, to Joseph McCarthy, even to Adolf Hitler? Those men aren’t even ranting anymore and they’re still talked about. Now that’s celebrity!
We should tell him how transparent and pathetic his nonstop, unsolicited boasts about polls and crowds have become. No matter the question, his answer is that he’s leading the pack. No matter the challenge, his response is that he got a standing ovation.
And so it went on Tuesday.
“Massive audience!” he bragged of the supporters who’d turned out for him the previous night. “Thousands of people inside, thousands of people outside — they couldn’t even get in!”
We should tell Trump that the man who constantly invokes his popularity is the one who worries that he’s unlovable. The man who refers incessantly to his riches is the one who frets that he’s worthless.
Is there a needier billionaire on the planet?
We should tell him that we, too, question the intensity of Barack Obama’s focus on the Islamic State and the terrorist threat, and that even on Sunday, when Obama addressed the nation from the Oval Office, we didn’t see quite the passion that this moment demands or quite the strength that a fearful country craves.
But what Trump just did took pressure off the president by redirecting the conversation from his tentativeness to Trump’s insane overreach. We should tell him that, and we should add that he has practically collaborated with the enemy by playing into a narrative of Muslim persecution and a grand war between civilizations.
He has given the Islamic State and other barbarians a piece of propaganda as big as any of his resorts and as shimmering as any of his office towers.
We should tell him that by setting a standard of such outlandishness and a reference point of such divisiveness, he’s helping his Republican rivals, whose own recklessness doesn’t draw the scrutiny that it otherwise would. Nothing’s shocking in the context of Trump.
So Ted Cruz reacts to the San Bernardino massacre by visiting a firing range and promising such extensive bombing of the Middle East that he’ll find out “if sand can glow in the dark.” But are we reading about him as the second coming of Barry Goldwater? Not so much, because we’re reading about Trump as the second coming of the last century’s worst fascists.
We should tell him that even a huckster extraordinaire like him can’t sell himself as smart while acting so dumb. He’s going to bar Muslims only temporarily, he insisted — just until Congress figures out “what the hell is going on.”
But he also portrays members of Congress as nincompoops who can’t figure out how to tie their own shoelaces. So Trump’s temporary is forever, at least if we apply logic to his illogic.
What’s not forever: our surrender to his insidious grandstanding. Our obedient witness to it. We in the media should tell him that once he fades from this presidential race, is no longer a candidate for anything and there’s no urgency or compelling public interest in having him phone in to the morning news shows, he’s fired. Cut off.
It’s cold turkey, Trump. We don’t need the ratings, not when they come with the ravings. We should be — we must be — better than that.
And he will fade, probably starting now, because while there are scared Americans and petty Americans and moments when all of us lose our way, we’re not lost enough to keep indulging him. We’re nowhere near that far from greatness.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Donald Trump‘s call to bar Muslims from entering the U.S. may have been his most effective remark yet in getting him attention. In the day since, he’s been in headlines around the world. Much of the attention was critical, but Mr. Trump and his supporters appeared unshaken.
_____
2. The billionaire Republican presidential candidate compared himself to Franklin D. Roosevelt, who in World War II authorized the detention of German, Italian and Japanese immigrants, a policy now viewed as disgraceful.
_____
3. Presidential rivals of both parties seemed to resent what Jeb Bush called Mr. Trump’s playing the media “like a fine Stradivarius violin.” The Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders was in Baltimore, in the impoverished neighborhood where Freddie Gray was arrested. When asked about the Islamic State, Mr. Sanders pushed back, saying, “Obviously ISIS and terrorism are a huge national issue that we’ve got to address, but so is poverty, so is unemployment, so is education, so is health care.”
_____
4. The band Eagles of Death Metal returned to the Bataclan concert hall in Paris, adding their own flowers to a memorial for the scores of people killed there on Nov. 13. The band was playing when one of the teams of gunmen attacking city sites that night stormed the building.
_____
5. U.S. police chiefs say their work and job security have been radically altered by more than a year of intense scrutiny prompted by brutal videos and accusations of abusive behavior. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel, who fired his police chief last week, lashed out at the force over a newly released video from 2012 showing officers shocking a 38-year-old man with a Taser and then dragging him by his handcuffs.
_____
6. Call it “Star Wars: The Line Forms.” The latest film in the franchise is almost two weeks from opening, but about 100 die-hard fans started their wait at L.A.’s historic Chinese Theater. “At night you freeze and in the daytime you cook, but you come for the camaraderie and the chance to be a part of cinematic history,” one said.
_____
7. Beijing felt its way through its first red alert on pollution, closing schools and factories and limiting the number of cars on the road. “Air pollution is a huge problem that we ignored early on, while we concentrated on economic development,” a university lecturer said. “Now we are paying the price for that.” International climate talks continue in Paris through Friday.
_____
8. The London-based mining firm Anglo American drastically expanded cutbacks, slashing 85,000 jobs — two thirds of its work force. That’s just the latest shakeout in the commodities sector as oil prices and iron ore continue their long drop.
U.S. stocks fell for a second day. The Dow Jones recovered after a fall, closing down 0.9 percent. The S.&P. 500 lost 0.7 percent. The Nasdaq slipped just 0.1 percent.
_____
9. Artificial turf is tough on soccer players, and the U.S. men’s team won’t play on it (even having artificial fields sodded at times). The U.S. women’s team is a step closer to parity, after it refused to play on plastic grass in Hawaii over the weekend. U.S. Soccer followed up by saying that none of the international games the U.S. is hosting next year will force the women onto artificial turf.
_____
10. And now for something completely different: the Sacred Valley in Cusco, Peru — or rather 1,312 feet over it. An outfit called Skylodge Adventure Suites offers overnight accommodations in two polycarbonate modules that simply hang on the side of a cliff. These were some recent visitors.
Video produced by Sofia Perpetua.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
LONDON — A day after Donald J. Trump called for a ban on the entry of Muslims into the United States, much of the rest of the world on Tuesday looked at the American presidential election with a mix of befuddlement and despair.
How is it, many wondered, that the same nation that twice put the black son of a Kenyan in the White House could now be flirting with Mr. Trump and his divisive, exclusionary stances?
His remarks ignited widespread condemnation that crossed ideological and social lines in many countries.
In Britain, Prime Minister David Cameron, of the Conservative Party, dismissed Mr. Trump’s position as “divisive, unhelpful and quite simply wrong.”
Prime Minister Manuel Valls of France, which is still reeling from deadly attacks by Islamic extremists, wrote on Twitter: “Mr. Trump, like others, fuels hatred,” and “Our only enemy is radical Islamism.”
Responding to some of the blistering criticism on Tuesday, Mr. Trump, a Republican presidential candidate, steadfastly defended his proposal but said any ban would be temporary and would not apply to United States citizens.
His comments were widely shared on social media throughout the Arab world. In a region racked by conflict, his language had an impact, including in Egypt, where he was condemned by the country’s highest religious authority and by many others, who called him an Islamophobe, a racist or, as Reem Khorshid, a 21-year-old engineering student and blogger, put it, “a madman who has no sense at all.”
Rachid Tlemcani, a professor of political science at the University of Algiers, warned that Mr. Trump could push young people toward the Islamic State.
“A lot of people in the Middle East think of the United States as the last place we can go if things turn really bad, as it is the place of freedom and liberty,” Mr. Tlemcani said. “I think that sort of comment could even invite some act of violence against America. I think he is not responsible.”
But Mr. Trump’s position also had its admirers. His stance on Muslim immigration drew several hundred favorable comments on China’s Twitter-like social media site, Weibo, where supporters linked his idea to their own fears of the Uighurs, a minority Muslim group in China’s northwestern region, some of whom have resorted to militancy and violence.
The type of attention being paid to Mr. Trump stands in sharp contrast to the last time a presidential election in the United States riveted the world — in 2008, when Barack Obama’s candidacy was widely embraced in other nations eager for what they viewed as a revival of American ideals. During that campaign, Mr. Obama was greeted by more than 200,000 people in Berlin, and his victory was widely hailed as an affirmation of the best of America.
As in the United States, Mr. Trump has incited particularly intense debate, not least in predominantly Muslim countries and in Europe, where far-right parties like Marine Le Pen’s National Front have been gaining ground by invoking anti-immigrant messages similar to those of Mr. Trump and where memories of 20th-century fascism still run deep.
J.K. Rowling, the British author of the best-selling Harry Potter books, even mused that Mr. Trump was worse than the books’ arch-villain, Lord Voldemort.
Charles Grant, the director of the London-based Center for European Reform, said Mr. Trump was anathema to many Europeans because his populism had edged toward fascism and conveyed a willingness to preach an open hatred of religious minorities that many far-right leaders, from Ms. Le Pen in France to Nigel Farage of the euroskeptic U.K. Independence Party in Britain, tried to temper as they fought to move their parties into the political mainstream.
Mr. Grant added that Mr. Trump conveyed an ignorance of world affairs that Europeans found hard to stomach from a contender in a national election in the United States.
“Donald Trump strikes me as a very different kind of populist right-winger than the kind we’ve grown used to in Europe in that he shows a complete ignorance about the world,” Mr. Grant said. “While Le Pen and others may say things that are alarmist, they at least acknowledge the premise of religious tolerance we’ve had in Europe since the 18th-century Enlightenment.”
In France, which is grappling with the challenges of integrating a large Muslim population, the newspaper Le Monde called Mr. Trump’s comments “unprecedented.”
But observers in France, where the National Front won the first round of regional elections last weekend, also noted that Mr. Trump reflected a familiar nationalist and anti-immigrant impulse, extending from Paris to Budapest. After the recent influx of migrants to Europe, many of them from the Middle East, Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary said that his country had a right to protect its Christian traditions by refusing to accept large numbers of Muslims.
In La Défense, a business district west of Paris, Inès Lessieur, 23, a student, said Mr. Trump depressed her. “I am sure he’ll get elected,” she said. Another student, Laura Albat, 20, responded, “No, a country that voted twice for Obama cannot elect a man like that.”
Some analysts, however, said that Mr. Trump’s views were more recognizable in Europe than most people liked to admit and that his stances resembled those of not just Ms. Le Pen but also other larger-than-life politicians who appealed to voters fed up with the political mainstream.
“Many Italians think Trump is a sort of American version of Silvio Berlusconi, a big personality without the background of what it means to be a politician,” said Sergio Fabbrini, director of the school of government at Luiss Guido Carli University in Rome. “Both are outsiders with a politically incorrect style, dividing American politics as Italian politics were divided.”
In the Arab world, Mr. Trump’s anti-Muslim comments have yielded growing alarm, as many wonder what the approaching election could mean for the involvement of the United States in their region.
“There is something disturbing about where the Americans are going in their relations with the outside world in general and with the Arab and Islamic world in particular,” said Abdulkhaliq Abdulla, a retired professor of political science from the United Arab Emirates. “All of a sudden it seems that America, or at least some segments of America, have forgotten what America stands for.”
Hafez Al Mirazi, the director of the Kamal Adham Center for Television and Digital Journalism at the American University in Cairo, contrasted Trump’s comments with the moment in 2009 when President Obama spoke in Cairo and attempted to reach out to the Arab and Muslim world, inspiring many with his personal story of success.
“What we are getting now is really terrible,” Mr. Mirazi said. “Stuff that only the Ku Klux Klan and others would say.”
Dar al-Ifta, the authority that issues religious edicts in Egypt, called Mr. Trump’s comments “extremist” and warned that they “threatened societal peace” in the United States.
Yet in a world in which terrorism has come to be associated with radical Islam, Mr. Trump’s stance resonated among people who perceive a similar threat.
“Honestly, I support his ideas,” wrote one user of the Weibo social media service in China. “If this guy could get in the White House, I hope he could do what he said — stop the entry of Muslims.”
Shen Dingli, a professor of international relations at Fudan University in Shanghai, said Mr. Trump’s mentality of “maximum security” struck a chord with many Chinese, who live in a highly conservative society.
“Actually, the Chinese could be the people who understand Trump the most,” Mr. Shen said.
Philadelphia — DONALD J. TRUMP’S reprehensible call to bar Muslim immigrants from entering the United States tracks an exam question I’ve been giving my immigration law students since Sept. 11. Would such a proposal be constitutional? The answer is not what you might think — but it also raises the issue of what, exactly, we mean when we say something is “constitutional” in the first place.
In the ordinary, non-immigration world of constitutional law, the Trump scheme would be blatantly unconstitutional, a clear violation of both equal protection and religious freedom (he had originally called for barring American Muslims living abroad from re-entering the country as well; he has since dropped that clearly unconstitutional notion). But under a line of rulings from the Supreme Court dating back more than a century, that’s irrelevant. As the court observed in its 1977 decision in Fiallo v. Bell, “In the exercise of its broad power over immigration and naturalization, Congress regularly makes rules that would be unacceptable if applied to citizens.”
The court has given the political branches the judicial equivalent of a blank check to regulate immigration as they see fit. This posture of extreme deference is known as the “plenary power” doctrine. It dates back to the 1889 decision in the Chinese Exclusion case, in which the court upheld the exclusion of Chinese laborers based on their nationality.
Unlike other bygone constitutional curiosities that offend our contemporary sensibilities, the Chinese Exclusion case has never been overturned. More recent decisions have upheld discrimination against immigrants based on gender and illegitimacy that would never have survived equal protection scrutiny in the domestic context. Likewise, courts have rejected the assertion of First Amendment free speech protections by noncitizens.
Nor has the Supreme Court ever struck down an immigration classification, even ones based on race. As late as 1965, a federal appeals court upheld a measure that counted a Brazilian citizen of Japanese descent as Asian for the purposes of immigration quotas.
In the context of noncitizens seeking initial entry into the United States, due process protections don’t apply, either. This past June, the court upheld the denial of a visa for the spouse of an American citizen based on the government’s say-so, with no supporting evidence.
The courts have justified this constitutional exceptionalism on the grounds that immigration law implicates foreign relations and national security — even in the absence of a specific, plausible foreign policy rationale. The 1977 Fiallo case, for instance, involved a father seeking the admission of his out-of-wedlock son from the French West Indies — hardly the stuff of national interest.
Indeed, contrary to the conventional understanding, President Trump could implement the scheme on his own, without Congress’s approval. The Immigration and Nationality Act gives the president the authority to suspend the entry of “any class of aliens” on his finding that their entry would be “detrimental to the interests of the United States.” President Obama has used this to the better end of excluding serious human rights violators.
But here’s the interesting thing: Just because Mr. Trump’s proposal has a judicial pedigree, that doesn’t make it “constitutional” in a broader sense. The Constitution and the courts are not synonymous, nor do the courts have a monopoly on constitutional interpretation. Politicians, the legal community, scholars and the public at large are all a part of our continuing constitutional conversation. Clear popular consensus can establish constitutional norms, with or without the courts.
The leading example comes out of the internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II. The Supreme Court upheld the internment in its 1944 Korematsu decision, and that ruling has never been judicially reversed. Technically, it remains good law. But it has been effectively overridden by other actors, and in the court of public opinion. A formal apology and payment of reparations, enacted by Congress and signed into law by Ronald Reagan in 1988, supplies the formal evidence. Korematsu continues to provoke popular shame.
We may be seeing that same shame at work today. Mr. Trump’s plan has triggered an uproar across the partisan divide. Perhaps a religion-based immigration bar may be consistent with court-made doctrine. But it doesn’t reflect our deeper, broadly assimilated understandings of the Constitution.
The fact that many Americans seem to assume Mr. Trump’s proposal is unconstitutional means that the courts need to catch up with the public on immigration. We don’t tolerate discrimination on the basis of national origin in hiring, housing or public accommodation. But discrimination on the basis of nationality, often capricious, even illogical, is a central feature of immigration law.
If you were born in the Philippines and are seeking to join a sibling who has American citizenship, for example, your wait in line is 10 years longer than almost everyone else’s. There may be good reasons for some of these different approaches. But the Supreme Court shouldn’t be rubber-stamping them.
The court won’t get to rule on the Trump scheme. It now needs to take the cue from the rest of us and bring its reading of the Constitution in line with the public’s own, more progressive constitutional norms.
WASHINGTON — When Donald J. Trump called on Monday for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States,” many legal scholars were aghast and said that such a ban would certainly be struck down by courts as blatantly unconstitutional.
But on Tuesday Mr. Trump clarified his proposal, saying that he would exclude only foreign Muslims, not Muslim American citizens who travel abroad and then seek to come home. That distinction, legal specialists said, made it far less likely the courts would strike it down.
“If a person is a Muslim, goes overseas and comes back, they can come back,” Mr. Trump said on ABC. “They’re a citizen. That’s different.”
Several legal scholars who specialize in immigration, international and constitutional law said a policy of excluding all foreign Muslims from visiting the United States would still be “ludicrously discriminatory and overwrought,” as Gerald L. Neuman, a Harvard Law School professor, put it. But he said that it was far from clear that the Supreme Court would block it.
Under a provision of immigration law, Congress has already delegated to the president broad power to issue a proclamation indefinitely blocking “the entry of any class of aliens into the United States” that he or she thinks would be “detrimental to the interests of the United States.” No president has ever used that power in such a sweeping way, but the text provides a potential statutory basis for a President Trump to carry out his plan, specialists said.
Still, if Mr. Trump won the White House and invoked that power as a justification to bar all foreign Muslims, people affected by that policy inside the United States — like a person seeking reunification with a family member, or a university that wanted to invite someone to come speak — could file a lawsuit challenging it.
Several legal questions would be raised by such a policy.
First, as a matter of international law, a treaty the United States has ratified, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, bars laws that discriminate against people because of their religion. It protects “all persons,” not just citizens of a member state.
But any lawsuit invoking that provision of the treaty would face an uphill struggle, the specialists said, because Congress has not acted to make that provision enforceable by domestic courts. So even if Mr. Trump’s policy clearly violated the provision, it is doubtful that the Supreme Court would decide that the treaty provided the judiciary with authority to strike the policy down, the specialists said.
Second, as a matter of domestic constitutional law, barring foreigners from visiting — or even barring the return of green card-holding lawful permanent residents — would be subject to a different legal test.
Because decisions about which foreigners to permit into the country are closely related to issues of foreign policy, the courts have long adopted an extremely deferential approach to reviewing such policies by Congress and the executive branch.
Indeed, for most of American history, including a famous 1889 Supreme Court decision upholding a statute passed by Congress that barred all Chinese people from coming to the United States, courts would not even review such decisions. That changed in the 1970s, when the Supreme Court began holding that it could review them.
But even after that change, the court adopted an extraordinarily solicitous standard: So long as the government cites a reason that sounds legitimate on its face for barring a foreigner from entering the country, the justices will uphold it without further scrutiny.
In practice, since establishing that standard, the Supreme Court has never overturned a decision to deny entry to someone.
David A. Martin, a University of Virginia law professor who was deputy general counsel to the Department of Homeland Security in 2009 and 2010, noted that as recently as last May, in Kerry v. Din, the court reaffirmed its commitment to that standard in a 5-to-4 ruling. It dismissed a lawsuit by an American citizen who challenged the government’s decision to deny a visa to her husband, an Afghan. The government said it had denied the visa because of unspecified terrorism concerns, and the majority of court said that was good enough without further scrutiny.
Still, the specialists said, Mr. Trump’s proposal to block the entrance of over a billion Muslims on the basis of their religion is so extreme that it was possible a Supreme Court majority might be willing to strike it down despite its very deferential standard for scrutinizing such policies.
“There is some cause for optimism that eventually this would get struck down by a court,” said Cristina Rodríguez, who teaches immigration law and constitutional law at Yale Law School. But she also questioned whether Americans would tolerate such a policy before a case got that far.
“The bigger question is what happens in the political arena before that, and do constitutional values influence political debate?” she said. “This would be a test case because it would be so blatantly contrary to our constitutional traditions that it’s hard to imagine that it would get to a full-blown case. But I could be underestimating the people supporting Donald Trump at this point.”
LONDON — More than 360,000 people, angered by Donald J. Trump’s call to ban the entry of Muslims into the United States, have signed a petition accusing him of hate speech and asking the British government to bar him from the country.
So many people have signed the online petition that Parliament is now required to consider debating the matter.
The text of the petition, titled “Block Donald J. Trump from U.K. entry,” cited British laws against hate speech.
“The U.K. has banned entry to many individuals for hate speech,” it says. “The same principles should apply to everyone who wishes to enter the U.K. If the United Kingdom is to continue applying the ‘unacceptable behavior’ criteria to those who wish to enter its borders, it must be fairly applied to the rich as well as poor, and the weak as well as powerful.”
The petition is limited to citizens and residents of Britain, although there is no effort to verify the status of signers, who are asked to provide a British address and to check a box that reads, “I am a British citizen or U.K. resident.”
Although Mr. Trump, a Republican presidential candidate, received support from some conservative commentators, his call for the United States to shut its borders to Muslims has prompted an outcry by leading political and cultural figures across the political spectrum around the world.
Prime Minister David Cameron has denounced Mr. Trump’s position as “divisive, unhelpful and quite simply wrong,” while in Egypt he was castigated by the country’s highest religious authority.
Britain, like other European countries, has been grappling with how to tame the threat of Islamic radicalism, and critics have condemned Mr. Trump’s comments for their potential to further inflame tensions.
Politicians and law enforcement officials here were especially outraged by comments by Mr. Trump, who leads in most polls, in an interview on the MSNBC program “Morning Joe.” The candidate said parts of London and Paris were so “radicalized” that the police were afraid for their own lives.
Tulip Siddiq, a member of Parliament for the opposition Labour party, was quoted by the BBC as saying that Mr. Trump should be refused entry into Britain. She called him “poisonous.”
“I would say to him, You are not welcome in our country, in the same way that you want to ban people like me going into your country,” Ms. Siddiq said.
But George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer, said that though he found the remarks objectionable, it would be better to respond to them with robust democratic debate rather than a ban.
In Scotland, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has withdrawn Mr. Trump’s status as a business ambassador to Scotland, the BBC reported, while  Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen has stripped Mr. Trump of an honorary degree it bestowed upon him in 2010 in recognition of his business achievements.
WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday called for Americans to reject “bigotry in all its forms” and keep pressing for equality “no matter what ugliness might bubble up,” appearing to use the 150th anniversary of the constitutional amendment abolishing slavery to challenge the incendiary anti-Muslim politics espoused by Donald J. Trump.
At a ceremony at the Capitol attended by congressional leaders and civil rights activists, Mr. Obama sought to place the end of slavery in the broader context of the nation’s troubled history, saying the issue “was never simply about civil rights; it was about the meaning of America, the kind of country we wanted to be.”
But he also made subtle reference to the roiling political debate that is consuming the 2016 presidential race, implicitly rebuking Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner in the polls, who has proposed temporarily barring foreign Muslims from entering the United States.
“Our freedom is bound up with the freedom of others, regardless of what they look like, or where they come from, or what their last name is or what faith they practice,” Mr. Obama said in the Capitol Visitor Center’s Emancipation Hall, filled with statues and busts of human rights leaders including Sojourner Truth.
His voice rose considerably as he mentioned “faith,” and many attendees, including Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, gave him a standing ovation at the reference. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, however, remained seated, along with Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.
“We betray the efforts of the past if we fail to push back against bigotry in all its forms,” Mr. Obama said. “We betray our most noble past as well if we were to deny the possibility of movement, the possibility of progress — if we were to let cynicism consume us and fear overwhelm us, if we lost hope.”
The president did not mention Mr. Trump in his remarks. The White House said Mr. Obama had not intended to speak directly to Mr. Trump in his speech, nor had any language been “newly inserted” to respond to one individual.
“This is quite consistent with the message the president has been delivering for a number of years,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, when asked about the comments during a briefing with reporters. “It stands in quite stark contrast to the language, message and values that is being promulgated not only by Mr. Trump, but by a variety of Republican candidates in the presidential field.”
The ceremony drew congressional leaders from both parties, as well as a group of black lawmakers who took turns recounting the process by which the 13th Amendment was passed in Congress and then ratified by the states, reaching the requisite three-fourths of the states on Dec. 6, 1865, when Georgia ratified it.
“At long last, we stopped poisoning the soul of our country with the atrocity of slavery,” Ms. Pelosi said.
Mr. Ryan noted that black soldiers fought in segregated forces during the Civil War and said the simple wording of the 43-word amendment belied its significance. “We have witnessed true greatness in this country,” he said. “And when we ratified the 13th Amendment, we committed ourselves to building a country just as great.”
In his remarks, Mr. Obama returned to themes he has sounded throughout his presidency — but with increasing frequency during his second term — acknowledging the painful legacy and lingering scars of slavery and racial discrimination, as well as the potential for moving beyond them that he has come to embody as the nation’s first black president.
“That’s what we celebrate today, the long arc of progress,” Mr. Obama said. “Progress that is never assured, never guaranteed, but always possible, always there to be earned, no matter how stuck we might seem sometimes, however divided or despairing we might appear, no matter what ugliness might bubble up.”
He said Americans would “do a disservice” to those who fought for an end to slavery “were we to deny that the scars of our nation’s original sin are still with us today.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. President Obama, speaking in honor of the 150th anniversary of the constitutional ban on slavery, took a swipe at Donald Trump’s call for barring Muslim from entering the U.S. “Remember that our freedom is bound up with the freedom of others, regardless of what they look like or where they come from or what their last name,” Mr. Obama said, pointedly adding, “or what faith they practice.”
_____
2. U.S. officials offered a fuller picture of the couple they say killed 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., last week. Radicalized separately, they were “talking to each other about jihad and martyrdom” before they became engaged in 2013, the F.B.I. director said. That raised questions about whether U.S. authorities missed something in the woman’s visa process.
_____
3. The focus on the San Bernardino case and the political uproar stirred up since have slowed Congress’s progress on a spending bill, meaning lawmakers plan to pass a stopgap bill by the Friday deadline. The Hill is a frenzy of lobbying, dealing and sparring over topics like new restrictions on Syrian and Iraqi refugees, environmental rules and campaign finance rules.
_____
4. Those last-minute provisions can have a huge impact. One Marco Rubio slipped into last year’s spending bill has undermined the Affordable Care Act, forcing premiums to rise and some insurers to close. Still, the Obama administration boasted of robust sign-ups for health insurance through the Affordable Care Act, with next Tuesday the deadline for coverage starting Jan. 1.
_____
5. Justices’ questions at a Supreme Court hearing on affirmative action at the University of Texas suggested that the plan was in peril. The ruling is expected next year. A ruling against the university could mean trouble for affirmative action around the country.
_____
6. In Chicago, Mayor Rahm Emanuel apologized for a fatal police shooting of a black teenager last year. But within hours, protesters shouting “16 shots and a cover-up!” blocked streets and demanded that he resign.
_____
7. Our top movie critics have wide-ranging tastes. But both put “Carol” and “Mad Max: Fury Road” among their top films of the year. A.O. Scott called “Mad Max” “a master class in old-school, super-linear action filmmaking, full of nasty, punk-rock, dystopian Australian humor. Also the best recent eco-feminist-socialist allegory that isn’t a novel by Margaret Atwood.”
_____
8. “South Park” wraps up its 19th season tonight (10 p.m. Eastern, Comedy Central) amid critical acclaim for its season-long send-up of rigid political correctness and the culture of outrage. “It was as if our culture had been shining an Eric Cartman-shaped Bat-signal and ‘South Park’ answered,” our reviewer said.
_____
9. The mood remained cautiously optimistic as climate talks in Paris neared their official Friday close (though a Saturday finish is possible). Sticking points include how often to reconvene to assess compliance with emissions targets and how often to toughen those targets. Beijing suffered through another day of red alert pollution.
_____
10. A Colorado court charged Robert Dear with 179 counts, including first-degree murder, in the shooting rampage last month at a Planned Parenthood clinic. He declared himself guilty and appeared to settle any remaining questions about his motivation by yelling, “I’m a warrior for the babies,” and referring to “the babies that were supposed to be aborted that day.”
_____
11. The perplexing hunt for the founder of Bitcoin may be over. The Australian police raided the home of Craig Steven Wright, a computer expert and entrepreneur in suburban Sydney. Gizmodo and Wired magazine identified him as the likely creator of the digital currency.
_____
12. A 2,000-year-old stone block unearthed in the ruins of a synagogue six years ago near the Sea of Galilee could be a three-dimensional representation of the Second Temple, made while the original still stood. The Magdala stone — named for its discovery in the presumed hometown of Mary Magdalene — is reshaping the understanding of ancient Judaism.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates — At Lifestyle, an inexpensive home furnishings store tucked inside the Mall of the Emirates here, shoppers on Wednesday examined lamps and picked up picture frames.
But they did not see any Trump Home mirrors or lotion dispensers.
Just hours after the Republican presidential candidate Donald J. Trump called for a ban on the entry of Muslims into the United States, one of his Middle Eastern business partners, the Dubai-based Landmark Group, responded by removing all Trump-branded products from the shelves of its Lifestyle retail stores.
In the Middle East, as in other parts of the world, the foundation of Mr. Trump’s business is his name, a brand that for many there is synonymous with American success and luxury. Regarding the Middle East as a critical avenue for growth, the Trump Organization signed numerous deals in recent years to put the Trump brand on upscale golf courses and residences in Dubai, hotel properties in Turkey, and home furnishings, accessories and décor sold in stores across the region.
But the value of the Trump name in the world’s vast Muslim population has been thrown into question since he made his comments.
“I now feel ashamed to live in a building associated with such a vile man,” said Melek Toprak, 38, who lives with her sister at Trump Towers Istanbul, an asymmetrical glass commercial and residential complex developed by the Turkish billionaire Aydin Dogan that soars over the city’s central business district.
“He insulted 1.8 billion Muslims worldwide, and he has business in the Arab world,” Khalaf al-Habtoor, another Middle Eastern billionaire, said in an interview. “He will lose because respectable Muslims will refuse to work with him.”
Mr. Khalaf, the head of a conglomerate based in the United Arab Emirates, says he regrets writing an article this summer in which he supported Mr. Trump, who remains the Republican presidential front-runner in most polls.
Unbowed, Mr. Trump says he is not worried about the impact his comments may have in terms of canceled visits to his golf courses and hotels, or lost business at stores that sell Trump-branded merchandise.
Instead, Mr. Trump insists he has been told by his Muslim friends and Middle Eastern business partners that they are grateful he has addressed a difficult subject that other world leaders would just as soon avoid.
“I have so many friends who are Muslim, they are thankful that I’ve been able to bring it up,” he said in a telephone interview. “It is a subject they say everybody else is afraid to bring up.”
Mr. Trump said he envisioned barring Muslims from entering the United States only as a temporary measure.
“This can go rapidly, and I expect it should,” he said. “We’re really talking about a limited period of time.”
Still, Mr. Trump said if he lost business because Muslim customers or others were angry about his statements, he would be prepared to live with that. “This is much more important than any single thing,” he said. “This is far more important than anything I’m doing.”
It is not the first time Mr. Trump’s incendiary remarks in this election season may have cost his business interests. Mr. Trump’s anti-immigration stance cost him millions, if not tens of millions, of dollars in lost licensing and other deals.
Mr. Trump has been down this road before. This summer, the Professional Golfers Association of America canceled its Grand Slam of Golf tournament at Trump National Golf Club Los Angeles, following Mr. Trump’s statement that Mexican immigrants were bringing crime and drugs into the United States and committing rape.
NBC labeled those comments derogatory and dropped him as host of “The Celebrity Apprentice” in June while also canceling plans to broadcast the Miss USA pageant, which at the time was part of a joint venture between Mr. Trump and the network.
But with Mr. Trump showing more staying power politically than many experts had anticipated and his popularity growing in parts of the electorate, some businesses that once sought to distance themselves now fear losing out. Last month, despite protests, Mr. Trump was invited to host the NBC program “Saturday Night Live.”
One Middle Eastern business leader said on Wednesday that he did not think Mr. Trump even believed what he was saying.
“Look, Donald is my friend, and we have been friends for a long time,” said Akbar al-Baker, the chief executive of Qatar Airways. “I think it is an exercise only to gain political mileage. Nothing more. This is the opportune time to excite more extremist people so that they could give him their votes.”
So far, only one of Mr. Trump’s business partners with roots in the Middle East, the Landmark Group, has distanced itself from him.
One afternoon this week, a black-and-cream bedroom set and a sleek dining room table from the Trump Home by Dorya collection were still on display alongside upscale brands like Ralph Lauren and Versace in an Aati showroom in the Karama area of Dubai.
The Trump Home galleries opened only a few months ago at the retailer, which is operated by Al Tayer Group of Dubai.
One of Mr. Trump’s biggest and most prominent relationships in the area is with Damac Properties, which is building Akoya, a 42-million-square-foot development that includes the Trump International Golf Club Dubai, luxury Trump Prvt mansions and villas, and a Trump Spa & Wellness Center. Damac did not respond to an email seeking comment about its relationship with Mr. Trump.
Just how far Mr. Trump’s comments will reverberate among Muslims in the Middle East and beyond is not yet clear.
On Wednesday, Guray Guraz, a 43-year-old Turkish teacher sitting at a restaurant in Trump Towers Istanbul, weighed Mr. Trump’s comments.
“I think he is an idiot, but it does not prevent me from coming here,” he said. “I do not feel very happy that he gave his name to this building, and when he made those remarks, I was expecting a protest in front of this building. But either people are not aware of the situation or they do not care.”
Ultimately, Mr. Trump’s stance could boomerang, not just overseas but in the United States as well, critics said.
“The comments are very unfortunate because they have the potential to dampen foreign trade,” said Gordon Gray, executive vice president of the National-U.S. Arab Chamber of Commerce. “To adopt a posture that would hurt economic activity is shortsighted, at best.”
Mr. Gray said he had not heard any other business leaders welcoming the idea of a ban on Muslims entering the country, notwithstanding Mr. Trump’s claims.
“The people with whom I’ve spoken are offended, and their concern is calibrated to the degree they think Mr. Trump might be elected president,” he said. “I’ve not yet met anyone who agrees with him. But it’s possible that he’s a billionaire and people tell him what he wants to hear.”
Go ahead, deplore Donald Trump. Despise his message. Reject his appeals to exclusion and hatred. But do not make the mistake of treating him as a solitary phenomenon, a singular celebrity narcissist who has somehow, all alone, brought his party and its politics to the brink of fascism.
He is the leading Republican candidate for president. He has been for months. The things he says are outrageous, by design, but they were not spawned, nor have they flourished, in isolation.
The Republican rivals rushing to distance themselves from his latest inflammatory proposal — a faith-based wall around the country — have been peddling their own nativist policies for months or years. They have been harshening their campaign speeches and immigration proposals in response to the Trump effect. Ted Cruz and Jeb Bush want to allow only Christian refugees from Syria to enter the country, and Mr. Cruz has introduced legislation to allow states to opt out of refugee resettlement.
And party officials around the country, attuned to the power of fear, have developed homegrown versions of the Trump approach. In 31 states, governors — most but not all Republicans — have formed an axis of ignorance, declaring their borders closed to refugees fleeing the Islamic State in Syria. In Texas, Gov. Greg Abbott has sued the federal government and a nonprofit relief agency to keep refugees out. Indiana’s refusal forced one family to seek refuge in Connecticut. Georgia is seeking to deny displaced Syrians federal benefits, like food stamps, and keep their children out of school.
Civil rights organizations — the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Immigration Law Center and the Southern Poverty Law Center — are defending the displaced against blatant discrimination. That it is even necessary to protect the victims of Islamic extremism from being victimized again, in the United States, is a national disgrace.
This is the force that Mr. Trump feeds on and that propels him. It is bigger than he is, and toxic. Not a vote has been cast in the 2016 presidential race. But serious damage is already being done to the country, to its reputation overseas, by a man who is seen as speaking for America and twisting its message of tolerance and welcome, and by the candidates who trail him and are competing for his voters.
Mr. Trump has not deported anyone, nor locked up or otherwise brutalized any Muslims, immigrants or others. The danger next year, of course, is giving him the power to do so. And the danger right now is allowing him to legitimize the hatred that he so skillfully exploits, and to revive the old American tendency, in frightening times, toward vicious treatment of the weak and outsiders.
The internment of Japanese-Americans in World War II, as some Republicans have either forgotten or never understood, was a dark episode in American history. It is remembered today with regret, as something the nation struggled with, learned from, and moved beyond. But there are millions of Muslims who have good reason to fear that the darkness is falling again.
The time to renounce Mr. Trump’s views was the day he entered the race, calling Mexico an exporter of criminals and rapists. He played to the politics of nativism and fear that was evident last year, when a wave of Central American mothers and children, fleeing gang-and-drug warfare to the Texas border, presented themselves upon the mercy of the United States, and were met with derision and hysteria.
The racism behind the agenda of the right wing on immigrants and foreigners has long been plain as day. Mr. Trump makes it even plainer. After his remarks on Muslims, how many of Mr. Trump’s rivals have said they would reject his candidacy if he won the nomination? As of Wednesday, none.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• New step in fight against militants.
The Pentagon is proposing a plan to build up a string of military bases in Africa, Southwest Asia and the Middle East to help carry out strikes against Islamic State affiliates.
• Honoring California’s victims.
The funerals for the 14 people killed last week in the San Bernardino mass shooting begin today.
Hate crimes inquiries are opening around the U.S., amid suggestions that harassment of Muslims and people misidentified as Muslims may be on the rise.
The Seattle police are investigating the death of a Muslim teenager who fell from a balcony, and vandalism has been reported at mosques and a Sikh temple.
• Reacting to Trump.
President Obama called for Americans to reject bigotry, an implicit rebuke of Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate who has called for keeping Muslims out of the country. One of the best-known American Muslims, Muhammad Ali, also weighed in.
Mr. Trump’s proposal has provoked outrage in the Mideast that could threaten his business brand there. But his political brand in the U.S. is solid, among Republicans.
• Police scandals.
Chicago’s mayor, Rahm Emanuel, is demanding sweeping police reform as protesters increase their calls for his resignation after videos of police shootings were made public.
In Baltimore, Officer William G. Porter, charged with manslaughter in the death of Freddie Gray, told jurors that he thought Mr. Gray was faking his injury. More defense witnesses will be called today.
• Focus on Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl.
House Republicans will make public a report about last year’s White House deal to swap five Taliban detainees at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, for Sergeant Bergdahl, a captive American soldier.
In the premiere episode of the second season of the podcast “Serial,” released today, the soldier explains why he left his base in June 2009, leading to a manhunt involving thousands of troops, and to his nearly five years in captivity.
• An ominous sign for affirmative action.
Most of the Supreme Court justices appeared unpersuaded on Wednesday that a plan at the University of Texas that uses race as a factor in accepting students is constitutional.
• Health insurance deadline nears.
One million new customers have signed up for health insurance during the Affordable Care Act’s third open-enrollment season. The deadline for coverage beginning Jan. 1 is Tuesday.
At the same time, a little-noticed provision that Senator Marco Rubio slipped into a giant spending law is quietly undermining the health care law.
• Climate talks’ homestretch.
Secretary of State John Kerry, in a familiar role, is at the Paris convention trying to coax a deal to slow global warming. It’s a tough task, with China and India driving hard bargains.
A climate agreement could also lead to a sweeping effort to save the world’s forests. Here’s the latest from Paris.
BUSINESS
• Fiat Chrysler is expected to pay the U.S. government as much as $70 million for underreporting the number of death and injury claims tied to potential defects in its cars.
And a new report shows that G.M. paid reparations for crashes before it successfully fought for immunity from litigation for accidents involving defective ignition switches.
• Volkswagen says that its emissions cheating scandal began in 2005 with a decision to promote diesel engines in the U.S. and a realization that they could not meet clean air standards.
• Toyota, Honda and Subaru — all Japanese carmakers — had the most winners in the insurance industry’s rankings of the safest vehicles.
• Walmart Pay will be introduced in the retailer’s home market around Bentonville, Ark., today.
• Facebook at Work, a professional version of the social network, is expected to be introduced in the coming months.
• Wall Street stocks  are gaining. European markets are mixed, and Asian indexes finished mostly lower.
NOTEWORTHY
• Golden Globes honors.
Best screenplay nominations went to “Room,” “Spotlight,” “The Big Short,” “Steve Jobs,” and “The Hateful Eight.”
The nominees in all the categories were announced this morning.
• Good news for grinches.
A new study finds that happiness doesn’t improve health and longevity.
• “Happy Birthday” battle nears end.
After more than two years of litigation, “Happy Birthday to You” — often called the most popular song in the world — may be one step closer to entering the royalty-free public domain, as a settlement has been reached.
And The Weeknd’s song “The Hills,” is facing a copyright-infringement lawsuit.
• Sports roundup.
ESPN and College Football Playoff officials have agreed that there will be no advertising for daily fantasy games during telecasts.
And Stephen Curry, the star of the undefeated Golden State Warriors (23-0), says that his training routine includes sensory deprivation tanks and flashing goggles.
• In memoriam.
Fatema Mernissi, a Moroccan sociologist who was one of the founders of Islamic feminism, died at 75.
John Trudell, an outspoken advocate of Native American rights, died at 69.
• Test-tube puppies.
A surrogate hound gave birth to seven half-pound puppies, the first dogs conceived in a test tube.
BACK STORY
Three minutes is the average time it takes to get served at the drive-through of an American fast-food restaurant.
A backlash against that kind of instant gratification led to the birth of the “slow food” movement, which brings attention to its cause each year on today’s date, calling it Terra Madre Day (Mother Earth Day).
The Slow Food organization began in Bra, Italy, in response to the 1986 opening of the first McDonald’s in Italy, on the Piazza di Spagna in Rome.
Though it started as a protest against fast food, the main aim of Slow Food is to preserve small-scale agriculture and artisanal food products.
The international group — members live in more than 160 countries — wants you to relish local products, like heirloom fruits and vegetables, herbs, homemade bread and handmade cheese.
Your home-cooked meals — using time-honored methods — should be accompanied by wines from regional vintners, microbrews or water, the thinking goes.
Also, eating — done slowly and carefully — should be a social event.
The movement’s symbol? The snail, of course.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
LONDON — The Republican presidential contender Donald J. Trump has lashed out at a petition seeking to bar him from entering Britain, saying that politicians there should thank him rather than “pandering to political correctness.”
Mr. Trump’s comments on Monday that foreign Muslims should be barred from entering the United States gave added traction to the online petition, which called for him to be refused entry into Britain on the basis of laws against hate speech.
The petition had garnered nearly 500,000 signatures as of early Friday , easily passing the threshold of 100,000 supporters that requires Parliament to consider debating the issue.
Mr. Trump has also gained some support in Britain, however, and a counterpetition titled “Don’t Ban Trump From the United Kingdom” had more than 26,000 signatures by early Friday. Calling the proposal to bar Mr. Trump “illogical,” the counterpetition urged Britons to “mind our own business.”
“We shouldn’t be banning people for their opinions on domestic actions in a U.S. political race that doesn’t concern us,” the petition says, noting the potential damage to the close bonds between Britain and the United States if Mr. Trump wins the presidency.
Mr. Trump shot back on Wednesday against his critics in Britain, saying that the proposed ban had made him reconsider his investments in Britain.
“U.K. politicians should be thanking me instead of pandering to political correctness,” the newspaper The Daily Telegraph quoted him as saying. “ I only said what needed to be said, and when I am elected no one will be tougher or smarter than me. I will work very hard and effectively to defeat terrorism.”
In criticizing British politicians, Mr. Trump invoked his investments in Scotland, including Trump International Golf Links, a golf course in Aberdeen, and his investment in the redevelopment of Turnberry Resort, a luxury resort on the Ayrshire coast.
“If they were going to do this, they should have informed me prior to my major investment in this 200 million pound development, which will totally revitalize that vast region of Scotland,” he said. The investment is equivalent to $300 million.
The petition against him was actually drafted on Nov. 28 — more than two weeks before Mr. Trump made his remarks about Muslims — by Suzanne Kelly, who writes for a community website in Aberdeen and has been investigating work at Mr. Trump’s golf course there in the face of local opposition, The Guardian reported.
Nicola Sturgeon, the first minister of Scotland, has revoked Mr. Trump’s status as a business ambassador to Scotland, and Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen has stripped him of an honorary degree.
Prime Minister David Cameron, of the Conservative Party, castigated Mr. Trump’s position as “divisive, unhelpful and quite simply wrong,” while J. K. Rowling, the author of the best-selling Harry Potter books, described Mr. Trump as worse than the series’ archvillain, Lord Voldemort.
Zac Goldsmith, a Conservative Party candidate for mayor of London, called Mr. Trump “repellent” and “one of the most malignant figures in modern politics,” according to news reports.
In an interview with CNN Tonight on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said he was “doing good for the Muslims.”
“Many Muslim friends of mine are in agreement with me,” he added. “They say, ‘Donald, you brought something up to the fore that is so brilliant and so fantastic.’ ”
Mr. Trump said that “one of the most important people in the Middle East” had called him on Wednesday to say “Donald, you’re doing a great service.”
But the global fury over Mr. Trump continued. In an apparent jab at Mr. Trump, Muhammad Ali, 73, the former boxing world champion, who converted to Islam in the 1960s, said it was necessary for Muslims to stand up to those who conflated Islam with radicalism.
“We as Muslims have to stand up to those who use Islam to advance their own personal agenda,” Mr. Ali said in a statement to NBC News titled “Presidential Candidates Proposing to Ban Muslim Immigration to the United States,” which did not identify Mr. Trump by name.
Referring to recent attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., he added: “Speaking as someone who has never been accused of political correctness, I believe that our political leaders should use their position to bring understanding about the religion of Islam, and clarify that these misguided murderers have perverted people’s views on what Islam really is.”
The petition to bar Mr. Trump from entering Britain has more signatures than a recent petition against airstrikes on Syria and one calling for the legalization of marijuana sales, according to the British Parliament’s website. But so far, it has received less support than a call for Britain to accept more asylum seekers and to increase support for refugees in Britain, which had 446,643 signatures at midday Thursday.
On Monday, Donald Trump singled out American Muslims as supporting repression and violence, citing a discredited poll from an anti-Muslim group as evidence for imposing border restrictions. But if he is worried about extremist public opinion in the United States, he should take a broader look around.
Research shows that Muslim Americans are less likely to endorse violence against civilians than other religious groups. Moreover, the evidence suggests that a non-trivial minority of Americans of all faiths and backgrounds is willing to endorse the sorts of violence against the government and repressive legal measures that Mr. Trump accused Muslims of disproportionately supporting.
For instance, 27 percent of Americans endorsed violence against the government under some circumstances in a 1998 Pew poll — the same accusation he made against American Muslims. More recent surveys conducted by Nathan Kalmoe of Monmouth College indicate that support for anti-government violence extends for millions of Americans to specific actions such as sending threats to politicians who are “damaging the country” (9 percent), throwing a brick through the window of the “worst politicians” (6 to 13 percent) and fixing “some of the problems citizens have with government” with “a few well-aimed bullets” (5 to 6 percent).
Americans also frequently wish to remove legal protections from certain groups, which again echoes Mr. Trump’s fear-mongering about imposing Shariah law. James Gibson at Washington University in St. Louis found in a 2005 survey, for example, that more than half of Americans endorsed unconstitutional limitations on speech by the groups they liked least, which included widespread support for banning demonstrations by “radical Muslims” (57 percent), atheists (47 percent) and religious fundamentalists (39 percent).
Given these findings, Mr. Trump’s turn toward extremism can be understood as a result of his willingness to exploit existing undercurrents in public opinion. Some people have always been willing to support the types of policies he’s proposing. He’s betting that those tendencies and anti-Muslim sentiment are likely to grow in the wake of recent attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., which have heightened fears about terrorism that in the past have been found to be associated with negative views toward Arabs and support for restrictions on their entry to the United States.
At least in the short term, he may not be wrong — one poll released Wednesday reported that support for Mr. Trump’s proposal was unchanged when respondents were told that “leaders from across the political spectrum have condemned” it as making the United States less safe by alienating potential allies.
Muhammad Ali, one of the most famous athletes in American history and a convert to Islam in the 1960s, returned to the public spotlight Wednesday night to say that political leaders had a responsibility to foster understanding about his religion.
His comments came after Donald J. Trump, the leading Republican presidential candidate, stoked anti-Muslim sentiment in the United States by, among other things, suggesting that foreign Muslims be barred from traveling to the country. Trump has also questioned President Obama’s affirmation that Muslim Americans are some of the nation’s sports heroes.
In a statement delivered to NBC, Ali did not speak about Trump directly but addressed his message to “Presidential Candidates Proposing to Ban Muslim Immigration to the United States.”
“We as Muslims have to stand up to those who use Islam to advance their own personal agenda,” Ali said in the statement. “They have alienated many from learning about Islam.”
In February 1964, shortly after winning the heavyweight title — and before fully converting and changing his name from Cassius Clay — Ali, speaking to reporters, defended his choice to participate in the Nation of Islam movement.
“I go to a black Muslim meeting and what do I see? I see that there’s no smoking and no drinking and their women wear dresses down to the floor,” Ali said at the time. “And then I come out on the street and you tell me I shouldn’t go in there. Well, there must be something in there if you don’t want me to go in there.”
American Muslims have often faced bumpy paths in sports. Ali stoked enormous controversy in 1967 when he said he would refuse to serve in the Army because of his Muslim beliefs. One of his remarks — “I ain’t got no quarrel with them Viet Cong” — became famous in the 1960s.
After his refusal to join the military, he was stripped of the world heavyweight title and lost his boxing license in New York. He was sentenced to five years in jail and was vilified by many fans.
“He became a Muslim in 1964 after defeating Sonny Liston for the title,” Morton Susman, a United States attorney, said at the time. “In my opinion, his trouble started with that — this tragedy and the loss of his title can be traced to that.”
Ali’s case went to the Supreme Court, which in 1971 reversed his conviction and agreed that he was deserving of conscientious objector status. After three years out of the ring, he returned to fighting and eventually regained his title.
The basketball player Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf became a flash point for controversy in 1996 when, playing for the Denver Nuggets, he declined to stand for the national anthem, citing American military aggression around the world.
“You can’t be for God and for oppression,” he said. “It’s clear in the Quran: Islam is the only way. I don’t criticize those who stand, so don’t criticize me for sitting. I won’t waver from my decision.”
After a brief suspension, he worked out a compromise that he would stand during the anthem but look downward and recite a Muslim prayer.
But Ali has long been the most visible Muslim athlete in the United States, even more so since Islam has become a political issue.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, Ali appeared on a celebrity telethon to defend his religion. He pleaded for acceptance and addressed the threat of terrorism, saying that terrorists killing in the name of Islam were wrong.
“People recognize me for being a boxer and a man of truth,” he said. “I wouldn’t be here to represent Islam if it was really like the terrorists make us look.”
Fourteen years later, Ali’s statement echoed his original comments.
“Speaking as someone who has never been accused of political correctness, I believe that our political leaders should use their position to bring understanding about the religion of Islam and clarify that these misguided murderers have perverted people’s views on what Islam really is,” he said in his statement.
In the days since Trump questioned Obama’s statement that Muslims were among America’s sporting heroes, people responded on the Internet by compiling lists of Muslim athletes. The list included Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, a six-time N.B.A. champion who on Wednesday suggested on Time.com that Trump’s comments were more in line with Islamic State rhetoric than with a leading presidential candidate.
“Thus,” Abdul-Jabbar wrote, “Trump is ISIS’s greatest triumph: the perfect Manchurian Candidate who, instead of offering specific and realistic policies, preys on the fears of the public, doing ISIS’s job for them.”
To the Editor:
Re “No, Trump Won’t Win” (column, Dec. 4):
David Brooks seems to think that Republicans will come to their senses because in the voting booth, responsible will top exciting but risky. For the sake of Republicans, Democrats and independents alike, I hope he is right.
However, all of the metaphors that Mr. Brooks uses to illustrate his point have all too common counternarratives: People marry for the wrong reasons all the time; tacky clothing can become a popular trend; and some people just like pink rugs. And many people will hop on and ride a bandwagon … right off a cliff.
TOM KAGAN
Staten Island
To the Editor:
I have a slightly different theory about American voters and the incomprehensible early polling appeal of Donald Trump. I think Americans, perhaps more now than ever, delight in theater in American politics. The more outrageous, the better. The bloodier, the better. The phenomenon seems very much like the crowds in the Spanish bullring.
But when it comes down to voting, I agree with David Brooks. Americans will get serious and vote more sensibly.
LIZ KELLY
Marine, Minn.
To the Editor:
David Brooks presents himself as a prudent man and has apparently never experienced buyer’s remorse. Mr. Brooks assumes that most other people are just like him. But many people are not so prudent; they make rash decisions based on fear or desire.
While I have no better crystal ball than Mr. Brooks does, I am certain that if events play out during the election season to arouse the kinds of passions that Mr. Trump appeals to, he can win the nomination and the election.
RICHARD FRIEDMAN
New York
Earlier this week, Mr. Trump called for a shutdown on Muslims entering the United States until everyone can “figure out what the hell is going on.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Fears of terrorism have skyrocketed in the U.S. since the attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., reaching levels not seen since shortly after the 2001 attacks, according to our latest poll. That has pushed Donald Trump to a new high among Republicans. But the poll also showed two-thirds of voters are either concerned about or outright fearful of the prospect of a Trump presidency. And almost as many voters fell into those camps regarding Hillary Clinton.
_____
2. California held the first of 14 funerals for victims of what the F.B.I. says was an Islamic State-inspired attack in San Bernardino. The White House is considering a Pentagon plan to develop a string of military bases across Africa and in the heart of the Middle East as hubs for counterterrorism missions against groups like the Islamic State.
_____
3. Connecticut’s governor, Dannel Malloy, waded into one of the nation’s most contentious issues. Bypassing a Congress divided on gun control, he said he would bar people on federal terror lists from buying firearms in his state. His announcement cited F.B.I. data showing people on the watch lists tried to buy guns and explosives more than 2,000 times between 2004 and 2014, and almost always succeeded.
_____
4. But there’s a core paradox on gun control. Fear of restrictions on buying guns has been the main driver of spikes in sales, far more than mass shootings and terrorist attacks alone, according to a Times analysis of federal data. “President Obama has actually been the best salesman for firearms,” an analyst said.
_____
5. Daniel Holtzclaw, a former Oklahoma City police officer accused of raping women while on duty, was convicted on 18 of 36 counts of sexual assault in attacks on 13 women — all of them poor and black. “He didn’t choose C.E.O.s or soccer moms; he chose women he could count on not telling what he was doing,” the prosecutor said in closing arguments.
_____
6. Hundreds of climate negotiators in Paris tried to hammer out the last sticking points on an agreement to cut global emissions, which would also help save forests. For a deal to succeed, the business world must conclude that investing in renewable sources of energy rather than fossil fuels will simply be more profitable.
_____
7. Leonardo DiCaprio received a Golden Globe nomination for “The Revenant.” Unexpectedly, so did Melissa McCarthy, for “Spy.” Our columnist praised “the random, devil-may-care merriment” that surrounds the awards, which are voted on by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, a group far more freewheeling than the Oscar-bestowing Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
8. President Obama signed the Every Student Succeeds Act, a piece of bipartisan collaboration so rare that he called it “a Christmas miracle.” The measure ends more than a decade of strict federal control of public education instituted by the No Child Left Behind law, a hallmark achievement by George W. Bush.
_____
9. Why dose children under 2 with psychiatric drugs? A Times special report found a jump in such prescriptions — up to 20,000 last year — even though there is no published research on the drugs for such young children. Nor is there an easy way to track what problems doctors are trying to solve, leaving experts to speculate about extreme behavior problems or lethargy.
_____
10. “Serial,” the groundbreaking long-form podcast, is taking on a high-profile case in its second season: Bowe Bergdahl, the U.S. soldier facing possible court-martial for walking off his base in Afghanistan. He tells the interviewer that shortly after he left the outpost, he thought, “Good grief, I’m in over my head.”
_____
11. If you can’t be happy, don’t worry. A decade-long study of a million women in Britain found that happiness has no direct effect on mortality. The widespread belief that unhappiness caused ill health came from research that reversed cause and effect, the authors said. “Good news for the grumpy,” one said.
_____
12. If you are happy, dance. Argentina’s new president did just that after his swearing-in. His inauguration ended eight often divisive years under Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, complete with a squabble over protocol for the final ceremony.
Video produced by Sofia Perpetua.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Americans are more fearful about the likelihood of another terrorist attack than at any other time since the weeks after Sept. 11, 2001, a gnawing sense of dread that has helped lift Donald J. Trump to a new high among Republican primary voters, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News poll.
In the aftermath of attacks by Islamic extremists in Paris and in San Bernardino, Calif., a plurality of the public views the threat of terrorism as the top issue facing the country. A month ago, only 4 percent of Americans said terrorism was the most important problem; now, 19 percent say it is, above any other issue.
Mr. Trump, who has called for monitoring mosques and even barring Muslims from entering the United States, has been the clear beneficiary of this moment of deep anxiety. More than four in 10 Republican primary voters say the most important quality in a candidate is strong leadership, which eclipses honesty, empathy, experience or electability. These voters heavily favor Mr. Trump.
The survey was largely conducted before Mr. Trump’s proposal, announced Monday, to temporarily block Muslims from entering the country.
“He’ll keep a sharp eye on those Muslims,” Bettina Norden, 60, a farmer in Springfield, Ore., said in a follow-up interview. “He’ll keep the Patriot Act together. He’ll watch immigration. Stop the Muslims from immigrating.”
Republicans expressed confidence in Mr. Trump’s ability to confront terrorism: Seven in 10 voters who said they were likely to vote in a Republican primary said he was well equipped to respond to the threat, with four in 10 “very confident” he could handle terrorism. Only Senator Ted Cruz of Texas comes close to those numbers.
But it is not only Republicans feeling renewed fear about terrorist strikes on American soil. Forty-four percent of the public says an attack is “very” likely to happen in the next few months, the most in Times or CBS News polls since October 2001, just after the deadliest terrorist assault in the country’s history. Seven in 10 Americans now call the Islamic State extremist group a major threat to the United States’ security, the highest level since the Times/CBS News poll began asking the question last year.
The public has little faith in President Obama’s handling of terrorism and the threat from the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL. Fifty-seven percent of Americans disapprove of his handling of terrorism, and seven in 10 say the fight against the Islamic State is going badly. There have been few foreign-directed terrorist attacks in the United States in the past decade, and American officials have repeatedly said that there is no credible evidence of planning for a large-scale attack in the United States by the Islamic State or its supporters.
Yet while Mr. Trump may be benefiting among Republicans from a perceived loss of safety, he remains a highly divisive figure with the broader electorate. Sixty-four percent of voters said they would be concerned or scared about what he would do if he became president. And while he occupies a commanding position among Republican primary voters, with more than twice the support of his nearest competitor, his backers are still a minority of that relatively small population.
Even as he leads the Republican field in support, he also has the most Republican primary voters, 23 percent, who say they would be most dissatisfied with him as the party’s nominee.
“It’s the things he says and how he says them,” said Bill Rogers, 43, of Xenia, Ohio, who supports John R. Kasich, the state’s Republican governor. “He’s just too blunt and straightforward, and it’s scary. He doesn’t hold anything back. Some people think the way he speaks is offensive, and I’m one of them.”
Perceptions about the likelihood of another attack are also carrying over into how Americans feel about the state of the country over all.
Just 24 percent say the country is headed in the right direction, the lowest figure in a Times or CBS News survey in more than two years. More than half of the public, 53 percent, say they are dissatisfied with how things are going in Washington; another 31 percent say they are angry.
This profound discontent is animating the Republican presidential race. Mr. Trump now has the support of 35 percent of Republican primary voters, a substantial increase from late October, when he was the choice of 22 percent of Republicans and was edged out by Ben Carson.
Mr. Carson, who has struggled with foreign policy questions since the Paris attacks last month, has fallen as much as Mr. Trump has gained since October and is now winning 13 percent of Republican primary voters. Mr. Cruz has increased his share of the vote to 16 percent from 4 percent in October. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida takes 9 percent, and the rest of the Republican contenders are below 5 percent each.
Mr. Trump remains the focus of the race for many Republicans, for better or worse.
“He stands up to people, and he tells what’s on his mind,” Philip Austin, 66, a retired insurance executive in Raleigh, N.C., said. “Unfortunately, even though people don’t want to hear it because a lot of what he says is inflammatory toward certain groups, it is the truth, because we have a massive problem.”
What has not changed from the last survey is the reliability of Mr. Trump’s supporters, an indication that he has a durable floor of support. While only a third of Republican primary voters expressing support for a candidate said their minds were made up, Mr. Trump’s backing is far more firm: 51 percent of his supporters say their minds are made up.
Twenty-six percent of Mr. Trump’s supporters said Mr. Cruz was their second choice, more than any other candidate. Mr. Cruz does well with evangelicals and voters who describe themselves as “very conservative,” running closely with Mr. Trump among each group.
But many Republicans are filled with both fury and fear, and it is Mr. Trump who is most effectively tapping into these boiling anxieties. Forty-four percent of Republican primary voters say they are angry about the way things are going in Washington, and of those voters, 43 percent support Mr. Trump.
“I’m mad about the Muslims coming in, I’m mad about the economy and I’m mad because we got a stupid president, and that’s about it,” said Manuel Hart, 71, a retired fire chief in Silver Springs, Fla., appending a pungent three-letter word onto “stupid.”
Asked whether it was more important for a candidate to agree with them on issues or to have the best chance of winning the general election, 62 percent of Republican primary voters cited issues, while just 36 percent said electability.
The country’s trepidation about another act of terrorism is having less effect on the Democratic contest, but Democratic voters expressed more confidence in Hillary Clinton’s ability to respond to terrorism than they did in Bernie Sanders’s. Mrs. Clinton has the support of 52 percent of Democratic primary voters, while Mr. Sanders takes 32 percent, a difference that has changed little in recent weeks.
What has shifted notably are attitudes on gun control. Only 44 percent of Americans favor a ban on assault weapons, 19 percentage points lower than after the mass shooting in Tucson in 2011. And while 51 percent favor stricter gun control in general, that is down from 58 percent in October.
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted Dec. 4 to 8 on cellphones and landlines with 1,275 adults, including 431 Republican primary voters and 384 Democratic primary voters. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points for all adults, six percentage points for Republican primary voters and six percentage points for Democratic primary voters.
WATERLOO, Iowa — Until Monday, when Donald J. Trump proposed a ban on Muslims entering the United States, Hillary Clinton could hardly keep herself from laughing at the mention of his name. “I’m sorry, I can’t help it,” she told ABC News on Sunday, letting out a giggle that made advisers squirm.
She is no longer laughing.
At a town hall here on Wednesday, Mrs. Clinton delivered her most damning, direct criticism of Mr. Trump, saying that he traffics “in prejudice and paranoia,” and that his Muslim proposal was “not only shameful, it’s dangerous.”
But Mrs. Clinton also strove to recognize something stirring in the electorate that Mr. Trump had clearly tapped into. “It’s O.K., it’s O.K. to be afraid,” she said. “When bad things happen, it does cause anxiety and fear,” she added. “But then you pull yourself together and, especially, if you want to be a leader of our country, and you say: ‘O.K., what are we going to do about it? How are we going to be prepared?’”
The remarks bore little resemblance to Mrs. Clinton’s previous dismissals of Mr. Trump. She had portrayed him as a reality television sideshow who voiced more extreme beliefs that, she contended, his more serious Republican rivals shared.
But since Mr. Trump’s response to the Dec. 2 terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., Mrs. Clinton and her campaign, confounded by his continued strength in the polls, have had to rethink how they handle Mr. Trump and what his candidacy, and the anger in the electorate that has fueled it, means for her chances in 2016.
Some of her own voters are giving her reason to.
Bennie Stickley, a 75-year-old in Gilbertville, Iowa, who retired from a John Deere factory, said he was supporting Mrs. Clinton but agrees with Mr. Trump’s proposal to bar Muslims. “I’m for him on that,” he said. “We shouldn’t be letting those people into the country,” he added.
“She’s as amazed as everyone else is” by his staying power, said Edward G. Rendell, a former governor of Pennsylvania, who recently spoke to Mrs. Clinton about Mr. Trump.
That befuddlement played out in the 24 hours after Mr. Trump released his proposal on Monday. The Clinton campaign, caught off guard, seemed to grapple publicly with how to respond.
Mrs. Clinton alternated between tugging at the heartstrings with messages of inclusiveness and capitalizing on Mr. Trump’s comments in ways that some Democrats considered unseemly. After she quickly rejected Mr. Trump’s remarks on Twitter, a fund-raising email went out that night from a top aide, Huma Abedin, under the subject line “I’m a proud Muslim.”
The campaign released a “Love Trumps Hate” bumper sticker, and on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton published an open letter on Medium titled “No, Donald Trump, We’re Not Barring Muslims From Entering the Country” that pleaded for tolerance.
But privately, campaign aides said a day later that the dust had not settled, and they were searching for how best to hit back at Mr. Trump without dismissing the heightened feelings of insecurity that he was playing upon.
By Wednesday in Waterloo, Mrs. Clinton struck a more somber tone. She had intended to discuss her corporate tax proposals at the town hall, but ended up devoting much of her time to Mr. Trump.
“I’m afraid,” a voter who rushed to the rope line after the meeting told Mrs. Clinton. “People are being so vitriolic.”
Mrs. Clinton nodded sympathetically. “That’s why I called Trump out at the beginning of what I said today,” she said. “I think it’s shameful for our country to have people running around to be president of the United States, saying these things, demonizing people.”
Moments later, when a college student asked Mrs. Clinton to make a Snapchat video saying, “You’re fired, Donald Trump,” she demurred.
“I’m not going to say that,” she said, as if to do so would cross a line. Instead, she agreed to make a lighthearted, quick video for the young man that did not mention Mr. Trump.
On Thursday night, when asked about Mr. Trump in an appearance on NBC’s “Late Night with Seth Meyers,” Mrs. Clinton said, “You know, I have to say, Seth. I no longer think he’s funny," adding that Mr. Trump’s latest comments had “gone way over the line.”
Mrs. Clinton is not the only Democrat struggling to settle on a strategy for responding to Mr. Trump’s campaign, the unpredictable Republican race and what Mr. Trump’s appeal says about the mood of the electorate.
Even when the White House press secretary, Josh Earnest, sternly said Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslims “disqualifies him from serving as president,” Mr. Earnest also called Mr. Trump a “carnival barker” and poked fun at his “fake hair.”
“The elite political community has been struggling to figure out how to deal with him because they don’t fundamentally understand the phenomenon,” said David Axelrod, former senior adviser to President Obama. “He’s speaking to something that they’re just getting their arms around.”
If Mrs. Clinton and other Democrats are certain that Mr. Trump’s candidacy is harming the Republican Party, they appear less sure how to respond to it.
Mr. Rendell condemned Mr. Trump’s more incendiary ideas, but added that there were parts of his message, like the need to hem in China and put a stop to currency manipulation that hurts America in trade deals, that could appeal to white working-class Democrats who are concerned about the shrinking middle class.
“A lot of what he says resonates with what you and I would call ‘reasonable, thinking people,’” Mr. Rendell said. “That’s the part that I think is important for Hillary or any Republican running, or Bernie Sanders, or anybody. That’s the part that I think is important for them to realize.”
Many of Mrs. Clinton’s advisers say they still doubt Mr. Trump will be the Republican nominee, but they have contemplated what it would mean for Mrs. Clinton, a policy wonk known for her 12-point plans to approach problems, to run against the visceral Mr. Trump, said several of those advisers who insisted on anonymity to discuss private conversations.
In Washington on Thursday, Mrs. Clinton’s pollster, Joel Benenson, told a campaign briefing that he believed Mr. Trump would linger and be a "dominant" force, but that he could not predict whom the nominee would be, according to an attendee.
Former President Bill Clinton has been particularly intrigued by Mr. Trump’s appeal, referring to his campaign as ideal for what he dismissively calls an “Instagram election” of quick sound bites and easy responses (“Build a wall!” “Close the borders!”) to extremely complex problems, said one of these advisers with direct knowledge of Mr. Clinton’s conversations.
Mrs. Clinton’s campaign has tried to portray Mr. Trump as the id of the Republican Party, saying what his more measured rivals think. This week, the campaign released a “Who said it: Donald Trump or not Donald Trump?” online quiz. “When it comes to hateful rhetoric, it’s difficult to tell the difference between the Republicans running for president,” the quiz read.
That connection may not be durable with voters after Mr. Trump’s proposed ban on Muslims, which some of his Republican rivals forcefully rejected.
At the same time, the threat of a homegrown terrorist attack has elevated anxieties and made Mr. Trump’s proposal appealing even to some voters who support Mrs. Clinton.
In Waterloo, Mike Russell, 60, called Mr. Trump “an idiot.” But when he was asked if he thought Mrs. Clinton had been aggressive enough in outlining her plan to defeat ISIS, Mr. Russell paused.
“I don’t know,” he said. “That last deal in California, that changes the game.”
WASHINGTON — When Representative André Carson was first introduced to Islam, he was a young man watching as his Muslim neighbors escorted older women to the grocery store and scared drug dealers off their streets in Indianapolis.
“I saw that work that Muslims were doing in my community in terms of keeping our community safe,” Mr. Carson, an Indiana Democrat, said in an interview Thursday. “They were doing the work that law enforcement failed to do or really didn’t have a deep interest in doing.”
Now, Mr. Carson, 41, is hearing his religion painted as extremist by Republican presidential candidates. He said he even received a death threat after Donald J. Trump issued his call to bar Muslim immigrants from entering the United States.
While many lawmakers have rushed this week to reject Mr. Trump’s proposal, Mr. Carson and Representative Keith Ellison, Democrat of Minnesota and the only other Muslim in Congress, have offered condemnation from a strikingly personal perspective.
“As a Muslim, when I see my community being attacked, it would be unacceptable and even un-American for me to not speak up and fight back,” Mr. Carson said.
Since the attacks in San Bernardino, Calif., and Paris, both congressmen have been pressed to come to terms with being a Muslim and an American politician in the age of the Islamic State.
Many Republicans on Capitol Hill have joined them in speaking out against Mr. Trump. On Tuesday, Speaker Paul D. Ryan reproached Mr. Trump, who leads most polls of the Republican presidential field. “Not only are there many Muslims serving in our armed forces dying for this country,” Mr. Ryan said, “there are Muslims serving right here in the House, working every day to uphold and defend the Constitution.” 
Mr. Carson, who won the seat held by his grandmother, Representative Julia Carson, after she died, grew up in a Baptist family and attended a Catholic school, even toying with the idea of becoming a priest. But it was the poetic, socially conscious lyrics of hip-hop artists — especially Rakim, a pioneer in rap and a Muslim — that moved him to convert as a teenager.
For his part, Mr. Ellison, 52, said in his 2014 memoir, “My Country, ’Tis of Thee: My Faith, My Family, Our Future,” that he has never been one to overtly display his faith in public.
“I practice my faith the way that millions of other Americans practice their faith: personally,” he wrote. “I never wanted to be put in a position of being seen as some sort of Islamic leader.”
But their religion has set them apart in a Congress that is 57 percent Protestant and 31 percent Catholic. When he became the first Muslim elected to Congress in 2006, Mr. Ellison rankled some members by choosing to be sworn in on the Quran.
It was Mr. Ellison’s testimony before the House Homeland Security Committee in 2011 that provided perhaps the most indelible image of the intersection between his job and his faith. Denouncing the purpose of the hearing — “The Extent of Radicalization in the American Muslim Community and That Community’s Response” — as “scapegoating,” Mr. Ellison spoke stirringly about a 23-year-old Muslim emergency medical worker who died at the World Trade Center in 2001, becoming so emotional he struggled to finish.
“His life should not be defined as a member of an ethnic group or a member of a religion,” he said, “but as an American who gave everything for his fellow citizens.”
Like Mr. Ellison, Mr. Carson is also private about how he practices his faith. Mr. Carson declined to elaborate on how often he prays or whether he abstains from consuming alcohol.
“You won’t see me praying on the House floor on C-Span, but I do pray,” Mr. Carson said.
Still, their beliefs have been called into question by some members of Congress. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, said Wednesday on MSNBC that Mr. Ellison should be asked when taking an oath to support and defend the Constitution: “Which is superior: the Constitution or Shariah law?”
Congressional staff members who are Muslim have prayed together on Fridays since the days of Speaker Newt Gingrich, gathering in the largest room in the Capitol along with occasional foreign visitors — some of whom marveled that they could do so on government property, said Assad Akhter, deputy chief of staff to Representative Bill Pascrell Jr., Democrat of New Jersey.
But the rise of extremist terrorist groups has left some feeling “trapped,” said Mr. Akhter, a former president of the Congressional Muslim Staffers Association.
“On the one side, we have religious extremists who are trying to tell us what Islam is, though we believe that’s a perversion of our faith,” he said. “And on the other side, we have political people telling us that our faith is something to fear.”
Real estate companies, furniture makers and other businesses that have emblazoned the Trump name on their properties and products ought to think hard about whether they want to be associated with the outrageous things coming out of Donald Trump’s mouth as he campaigns for the Republican nomination for president.
Some businesses like NBC, Serta and Macy’s wisely distanced themselves from Mr. Trump and said that they would discontinue products that bear his name after he called Mexicans criminals and rapists earlier this year.
For years, Mr. Trump and his company positioned the Trump brand as a symbol of gaudy luxury. And they established a lucrative business licensing his name to real estate developers, hotel owners and other businesses. The Trump brand is used to sell products as wide-ranging as  clothing, coffee pods and sofas.
Clearly many consumers who find Mr. Trump’s statements offensive will cringe at using products and services that have his name on them, even if he has little to do with the business in question. That’s why one Dubai-based retail company quickly removed Trump merchandise from its stores after Mr. Trump said Muslims should be barred from coming to the United States until officials “figure out what is going on.”
Of course, each business will make its own decision of whether and how they want to be associated with Mr. Trump. Some might have invested so much money and time in the Trump brand that they will stick with it, presumably hoping that the public furor over his comments will subside. (Given the rate at which he is insulting people, they might be waiting for a while.)
Some business executives have explained away Mr. Trump’s comments as the kind of harmless hot air typically vented by politicians during elections. The chief executive of Qatar Airways, who says he is a friend of the candidate, told The Times that Mr. Trump’s remarks were nothing more than an effort “to gain political mileage.”
But businesses dependent on the Trump name shouldn’t be so certain. It takes a lot of work to make brands successful, and they can be undone quickly by controversy and scandal. Thanks to Mr. Trump himself, his name increasingly stands for bigotry and racism. His licensees should ask themselves if they want to be linked to a brand that carries those connotations.
Donald J. Trump mocks his opponents as “low energy,” but his own campaign travel schedule is relatively sleepy: He left his home base of New York for only 17 public events during a 30-day stretch.
After several months of doing mostly pop-in, pop-out visits, Marco Rubio recently made a five-day swing through Iowa — the longest single stretch he had spent there. But in the middle of it, he took a Sunday afternoon off to take in some football.
Ben Carson is not only running for president, but he is trying to sell books, too. So for the first five days of November, he ditched the campaign trail to go on tour to promote his latest one.
A hectic and draining travel schedule crammed with visits to cafes and community center basements, shaking as many hands as possible, has long been a necessary staple on the road to becoming president.
Not this time around.
A day-by-day analysis of how the top-tier Republicans seeking the White House spent the crucial month of November reveals that, in this campaign, a strenuous itinerary does not necessarily translate to robust poll numbers.
Jeb Bush, whose failure to connect with voters might normally suggest a lack of effort, logged an impressive 50 public events or fund-raisers in November, sometimes touching down in three states in a single day.
But it is Mr. Trump whose Twitter-fueled, television-interview-heavy campaign is upending the conventional approach to running for president, with the travel log that seems so inversely related to his success.
Mr. Trump, 69, has spent fewer days on the road than his rivals, all while holding his grip on the top spot in the Republican race.
Known to be something of a homebody who prefers to sleep in his own bed, Mr. Trump is far more likely to be in Manhattan on a given day or night even though he has his own Boeing 757, not to mention hotels and resorts that brandish his gilded name from Las Vegas to Miami to Chicago.
When he does have to travel for an appearance, Mr. Trump has developed a way of getting in and out with precision.
He tends to leave in the late afternoon from La Guardia Airport. His destination is usually close to an airport with a runway long enough to handle a 757. At the event, he speaks for about an hour. And when he is finished, he mingles for just a few minutes as his security detail lets a few people close enough for autographs and selfies. Then it is back home for the night.
“Came up, I speak for 20 minutes, then get the hell out of here,” Mr. Trump said during a mid-November forum in Orlando, Fla., a quick flight from another of his residences, in Palm Beach.
Mr. Rubio, a Florida senator, has also perfected the campaign drop-in.
Mr. Rubio’s days on the road are usually light on big public events like rallies or town halls, according to the analysis, which was based on the candidates’ public schedules, news reports of their appearances and detailed itineraries provided by the campaigns.
In November, he spent parts of 14 days in Florida, including a break for Thanksgiving. Mr. Rubio, 44, a father of four, has said that he strives to spend as much time with his family as he can on the weekends, and is often at church on Sundays. He almost never campaigns that day except to do a television interview.
An admitted football fanatic, he is also loath to miss Sunday games. (During his five-day trip to Iowa, he watched football with his state chairman, Jack Whitver, a former wide receiver for Iowa State.)
In New Hampshire, Mr. Rubio’s thin public schedule has drawn snide criticism from the state’s largest newspaper, The Union Leader, which has endorsed Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.
“Marco? Marco? Where’s Rubio?” read the headline on an editorial last week.
His aides say he spends more time in private meetings with business leaders, pastors and other community figures that they choose not to publicize.
It is his unseen schedule that tends to be busier, like on Nov. 17, when he was in Washington for a classified intelligence briefing, then in New York and Texas for fund-raising.
If Mr. Rubio, who is consistently in the top four in polls, and Mr. Trump are examples of how little a candidate can pencil in on a public schedule and still do well, Mr. Bush is just the opposite.
The week of Nov. 9 was a typical one for him.
After spending the weekend in Miami, Mr. Bush, the 62-year-old former Florida governor, flew to Milwaukee for the Republican debate, which he prefaced with a fund-raiser and a school-choice program nearby. The day after the debate, Wednesday, he went to Iowa for two-town hall-style meetings and a meet-and-greet with veterans. Then it was off to Michigan on Thursday for another town-hall-style gathering and a fund-raising lunch. By dinnertime, he was in New Hampshire for a house party. And after an overnight stay there and another town hall meeting on Friday morning, he flew to Florida for an event with the state Republican Party.
While Mr. Bush is essentially free of the constraints of a day job, others have had to balance their campaign obligations with official duties.
Mr. Rubio, for one, has been chided for shirking his responsibilities as a senator, missing more votes this year than any of his colleagues.
His schedules show that he spent just two days in Washington in November (the Senate was in session for 10 days.) When he missed a vote on a military spending bill favored by conservatives, he entered an explanation in the official record from the road in New Hampshire saying that he “would have voted yes.”
One of his rivals, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, was there to vote for the bill. Mr. Cruz spent six days in November working in Washington, introducing two bills and as chairman of two hearings, among other things.
Mr. Cruz, who is 44 and has two young daughters, has organized his itineraries to spend the middle of the week on Senate business while campaigning on weekends. Two days after Thanksgiving, he was back in Iowa, the state where he has focused much of his attention with three visits last month, and where he has steadily risen in polls.
Mr. Cruz has densely packed days on the campaign trail, scheduling as many as a half-dozen public appearances, and the days grow longer when he adds last-minute stops, dropping into a pizzeria or cafe.
Like the senators, Mr. Christie has balanced his official schedule as governor of New Jersey with an increasing emphasis on New Hampshire, although he still lags in polls.
In November, Mr. Christie, 53, made three visits to the state — including a three-day, 10-stop tour early in the month. As he became a fixture in the state, Mr. Christie told a guest at a house party in Bedford, N.H., “You’ll be tired of me by the time this is over!”
His time in New Hampshire apparently unsettled Mr. Trump, who suggested that Mr. Christie had abandoned his “deeply troubled” home state. “New Jerseyans not happy!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter.
Labeled “super low energy” by Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson has maintained a schedule, much like his candidacy, that has been less conventional, as he spent only a few hours in New Hampshire, to get his name on the primary ballot, and was in Iowa only briefly in November.
As he took a comparatively breezy approach to the crucial early primary states, he devoted his face time elsewhere, touching down in more than a dozen states, as well as traveling to the Middle East, during the month.
Once he wrapped up the book tour in Florida in the first week of November, Mr. Carson boarded a JetBlue flight to Westchester, then headed to Connecticut for a Saturday lunch meeting with Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, and Rupert Murdoch, a news media mogul, according to his calendar. That night, he flew to San Juan for a rally to support statehood for Puerto Rico (which has a Republican primary in March) before turning his focus to that Tuesday’s debate in Milwaukee.
Despite the unusual approach, Mr. Carson, 64, has maintained his status in the top tier of candidates, though he has slipped a bit in recent polls. He has not seemed particularly fazed by the pace of the race, especially when he compares it with his time as a pediatric neurosurgeon.
“This,” Mr. Carson said in a November interview, “doesn’t seem quite that bad.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• Inching toward a climate deal.
The Paris climate talks are in their final hours today. Negotiators have the text of a new climate change accord, but the draft has a hole.
What’s missing is clear language on monitoring how countries follow through on their promises to cut emissions growth.
• Voting patterns.
Financial worries and fears about terrorism and immigration are contributing to a rise in support for right-wing populists in Europe similar to Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Trump’s solid lead among likely Republican primary voters has Democrats beginning to take him seriously.
Fears of terrorism are soaring in the U.S., reaching levels not seen since shortly after the 9/11 attacks.
• Awash in guns.
Connecticut’s governor, Dannel P. Malloy, said he would bar people on federal terrorism lists from buying firearms in his state.
F.B.I. data shows that people on the watch lists who tried to buy guns and explosives between 2004 and 2014 almost always succeeded.
But the fear of restrictions on gun purchases has led to a spike in sales.
• Officer found guilty of rapes.
Daniel Holtzclaw, a former Oklahoma City police officer accused of raping women while on duty, was convicted on 18 of 36 counts of sexual assault in attacks on 13 women — all of them poor and black.
About 1,000 officers have lost their badges for sex crimes or other sexual misconduct over a six-year period in the U.S., The Associated Press reports.
• On Capitol Hill.
Government funding expires at midnight, and the House is expected to pass a five-day funding measure, approved by the Senate on Thursday, to allow more time for talks on a $1.1 trillion federal spending bill.
• On campus.
More than two dozen colleges and universities across the U.S. with religious affiliations have received exemptions from federal civil rights protections. Activists say the waivers allow them to discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity.
And Justice Antonin Scalia’s question of whether black students should go to “slower-track” schools is receiving lots of attention.
• Firsts for Saudi women.
Women can run for local council seats in Saudi Arabia in elections on Saturday, and for the first time they can register to vote.
And the kingdom is under new scrutiny as the estimated death toll from a stampede at the hajj three months ago surpassed 2,400.
BUSINESS
• DuPont and Dow Chemical said today they had agreed to merge, in one of the biggest deals of the year.
The combined company will be known as DowDuPont, and it caps a record year for deal-making, with more than $4 trillion worth of deals announced.

• A top broker for JPMorgan Chase, who blew the whistle on the bank, was fired. This is his story.
• Wall Street stocks and European markets are sharply lower, and Asian indexes finished mixed.
NOTEWORTHY
• At the movies.
Two films based on books open nationwide tonight. “The Big Short” is about Wall Street shenanigans that led to the economy’s collapse in 2008, and “In the Heart of the Sea” tells the 1820 maritime-disaster story that inspired Herman Melville’s “Moby-Dick.”
• Best sellers.
“Cross Justice,” the latest thriller in James Patterson’s long-running Alex Cross series, enters our hardcover fiction list at No.1. And Carly Simon’s dishy memoir, “Boys in the Trees,” is new at No. 9 in nonfiction.
• Presidential picks.
The first couple shared their favorite films, books and songs this year. And Mrs. Obama rapped about going to college.
• Football roundup.
The Arizona Cardinals clinched a playoff berth, holding off the Minnesota Vikings in the final seconds for a 23-20 victory Thursday night.
Here are all the N.F.L. playoff scenarios, and our previews and picks for Sunday’s games.
• Sinatra’s centenary.
Saturday would have been Frank Sinatra’s 100th birthday. A four-CD box set was released recently, and of the more than 100 tracks on it, 91 have never been heard by the public. It comes with a 60-page book.
• New to watch.
Season 2 of the Emmy-winning “Transparent,” about the romantic, sexual and gender complications of a Los Angeles family, begins streaming today.
(Earlier, we incorrectly said that the Emmys were next weekend.)

• In case you missed it …
Our front-page editorial, “End the Gun Epidemic in America,” and “What Drives Gun Sales?” were among our most-read articles this week. 
So were an article on what makes online ads so maddening and our collection of stories that readers spent the most time on this year.
BACK STORY
There once was a time you could live next door to a professional baseball player.
For most of us, no longer. In a $217 million contract signed last week, the pitcher David Price will get about $1 million every time he steps on the mound for the Boston Red Sox next year. It’s the richest contract ever for a major league pitcher.
How did baseball salaries become so big?
It started after the 1969 season, when Curt Flood, the St. Louis Cardinals’ star center fielder, refused to accept a trade to Philadelphia, saying: “I do not feel I am a piece of property to be bought and sold irrespective of my wishes.”
Flood filed a landmark lawsuit to increase players’ bargaining rights. While he eventually lost at the Supreme Court, his effort encouraged other players to pursue the right to sell their skills to the highest bidder.
In 1976, the players’ union and Major League management agreed to free agency, with limitations.
The very first big-money free agent was a New York Yankee, because of a separate arbitration case.
Then the Yankees used the new rules to sign Reggie Jackson and Goose Gossage for millions in the 1970s. And the bidding wars broke out.
In 1976, the average player salary was $51,000. Today, it is nearly $4 million.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

On Monday, Donald Trump stood aboard the U.S.S. Yorktown before a sprawling crowd. Earlier in the day, he had introduced a proposal that, in a candidacy notable for its bombast, was his most bombastic yet: a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” The reaction in the media was instantaneous, enormous — the eyes of the world were on Trump. And yet the man, that night, struck me as far less important than the roar of the crowd that greeted him.
The roar came when Trump read his press statement aloud. It was a long, full-bodied roar — hands clapping, fists stabbing the air. The roar you give when things that you and your family and your friends have long believed are suddenly utterable on what is arguably the greatest stage on earth: the American presidential election. It was a roar of relief: These were no longer notions that had to be muttered under your breath. Trump wasn’t just “saying what he means,” in that phrase so often used by pundits to explain his success. He, the freest of men, was saying what they meant.
The American establishment has spent this week trying to metabolize that statement. The Hitler comparisons are fading; people are calming down. Trump, too, will pass, they tell themselves. He is a Queens-sized personality, so he is treated as a personality; his positions are seen as synonymous with his person. The hope seems to be that if he goes away, the ideas will go away, too. But what if Trumpism outlasts Trump?
Think, for starters, of the millions who apparently agree with him. A poll from Bloomberg Politics/Purple Strategies found that two-thirds of likely 2016 G.O.P. primary voters favor the moratorium on Muslims entering the United States. The idea is already twice as popular as its champion. Last Saturday, two days before his statement on Muslims, Fox News began a four-evening poll in South Carolina. Trump drew 30 percent support on the two nights before his proposal, and 38 percent on the two nights following it. Meanwhile, about half of Trump supporters in North Carolina and in New Hampshire want to “see the mosques in the country shut down.” In the North Carolina poll, only one-quarter of Trump supporters said they thought Islam should even be legal in the United States; 44 percent thought not.
This suggests that there is an enormous constituency favoring this set of (probably unconstitutional) ideas, despite the fact that they have been rejected by most of the American political class. Trump didn’t generate this constituency with a few brash statements. He harnessed feelings that long predated his candidacy — feelings of besiegement and alienation, of being silenced — and gave them an unprecedented respectability. Even if Trump leaves the stage by springtime, he has galvanized, gathered and given voice to all these Americans.
America is living through an era of dramatic changes: its demographics shifting, its middle class contracting, its institutions grappling with the pressures of the networked age. Trump isn’t winning those Americans who tend to experience this change as a tailwind. But he has enthralled millions who experience it as a headwind, and his relentless campaign against “political correctness” has given voice to their fears: about terrorism; about a country passing into new hands, with the attendant loss of privileges and certainties; about a democracy that will never solve problems if we cannot call radical Islam radical Islam. This anti-P.C. sentiment, so vital to Trump’s brand, is often minimized on the left as simple intolerance. But the longing for less-muzzled debates is to many on the right what campaign finance is to many on the left: the issue we must solve to be able to solve any other issue.
This is how Trumpism might outlast Trump — by gelling this anxiety and longing into a movement, by giving a new permission to question who is American, by redrawing the borders of respectable debate.
Americans are more fearful about fresh terrorist attacks than at any time since Sept. 11, 2001, a New York Times/CBS News poll found this week. In the autumn of 2001, that fear triggered an Islamophobic backlash and a spate of attacks against Muslims and people thought to be Muslim. In recent days, reports from across the nation have suggested that history is repeating itself in this way, too — including the beating this week of the owner of the Fatima Food Mart in Astoria, Queens.
I wrote a book, “The True American,” about the 2001 backlash and Mark Stroman, an angry white drifter who was galvanized by 9/11 to shoot three immigrant clerks in the food marts of Dallas. Studying Stroman’s life, I learned how a man who had mostly been just a blustery, racist petty criminal had been inspired to action by the feverish atmosphere around him: the endless reruns of the planes hitting the towers, the endless talk of America being “under siege” and threatened in its freedoms, the Orwellian officialese of terms like “enemy combatants,” which inspired Stroman to call himself an “allied combatant.”
But there is one difference between then and now. In 2001, Stroman got virtually zero encouragement from anyone in the American political class. “The enemy of America is not our many Muslim friends,” President George W. Bush said the week after the attacks. Today, amid this new wave of fear, Islamophobic rhetoric is openly articulated by major national figures, including but not limited to Trump. We’re left to hope that it will fail to encourage any new Mark Stromans.
America, thankfully, is not an easy nation to commandeer. Its institutions and rule of law and Constitution, still envied throughout the world, probably make it Trump-proof — that is to say, impervious to many of his proposals, even if he were to win the presidency. And yet not a small number of observers, trying to digest this week’s news, found themselves researching the dates and methods of Hitler’s rise, wondering how exactly something that seemed unacceptable yesterday becomes acceptable today, and whether we trust ourselves to notice when it does.
On Tuesday, I turned on “Morning Joe,” on MSNBC. It was the morning after Trump’s statement on Muslims, and Joe Scarborough, the conservative host, was musing that we were living in our own American version of Germany circa 1933. One by one, the denizens of the round table lambasted Trump.
Then Trump called in. The interview proceeded for more than a half-hour; Trump ran circles around the journalists. Then they analyzed. They still criticized him but now their talk was of his effectiveness: How does the man do it?
On Thursday, I tuned in again. By now, the hosts’ outrage had become a desire to compromise with Trump: What if we just increased surveillance of immigrants? (“It’s going to have to be nonstop surveillance,” Scarborough said.) What if we shut down immigration from war-torn countries like Syria, rather than from a religion? “What’s the middle ground?” Scarborough asked.
Forty-eight hours earlier: Germany, 1933. Now: where can we meet in the middle?
Perhaps this is how the sensible fold: by accepting as a given the question proposed by the extremist and scurrying to offer alternative solutions. When Trump made his proposal on Monday, he was not merely seeking to solve a Muslim question, he was seeking to make a Muslim question a thing. “Morning Joe” gave that latter project a boost. A wide consensus about the existence of a Muslim question would certainly leave Trumpism with us in Trump’s absence.
What other unthinkable questions will we acquiesce in asking? What other unmentionable solutions will we let ourselves propose?
Senator Ted Cruz has long cheered Donald J. Trump’s presence in the Republican presidential field, thanking him for focusing national attention on issues like border security.
Speaking to donors in New York City on Wednesday, Mr. Cruz suggested a more strategic reason to be grateful: Mr. Trump is bending the race in Mr. Cruz’s direction.
“He has framed the central narrative of this primary as, ‘Who will stand up to Washington?’ ” Mr. Cruz, of Texas, said at the private fund-raiser, echoing remarks he has made publicly. “Now if that’s the central narrative, the natural next question is, ‘O.K., who has stood up to Washington?’ ”
Mr. Trump, in this view, has taken a machete through the brush for Mr. Cruz, allowing him to rise quietly despite his own reputation for bombast, while Mr. Trump absorbs the scrutiny a front-runner attracts and eventually peters out, as Mr. Cruz has wagered.
At the same time, in an election season of intense outsider fervor, Mr. Cruz seems to have found, through Mr. Trump, support for his case that his own government experience — railing against leadership in both parties — should be seen as a genuine asset.
“Let me point out,” he said last month, creating a rare public contrast with his rival, “when it comes to standing up to Washington, I was doing it long before Mr. Trump was running for president.”
It is at least partly this belief — that Mr. Trump has made the case for Mr. Cruz without intending to — that seems to explain Mr. Cruz’s conspicuous public deference to Mr. Trump, though avoiding his attacks is surely another consideration.
The period of total harmony appears to be over. Mr. Cruz, according to an audio recording from Wednesday’s fund-raiser, said Mr. Trump was facing a “challenging question” about whether he had the judgment to be president.
On Friday morning, Mr. Trump took note on Twitter, somewhat gently by his standards. “He will fall like all others,” Mr. Trump said. “Will be easy!”
And at a rally in Des Moines, Mr. Trump tweaked Mr. Cruz on a critical local issue, his opposition to subsidies favored by the ethanol industry. “Oil gives him a lot of money,” Mr. Trump said ominously.
He also appeared to take a swipe at the senator’s faith. “I do like Ted Cruz, but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba, in all fairness,” he said.
Still, asked if he would consider naming Mr. Cruz as his vice president or nominating him to the Supreme Court, Mr. Trump said admiringly that he had “things in mind for Ted,” noting that other candidates had not been as kind to him.
Mr. Cruz’s campaign declined to comment on Mr. Trump’s remarks at the rally. On Twitter hours earlier, Mr. Cruz struck a diplomatic tone. “The Establishment’s only hope: Trump & me in a cage match,” he said. “Sorry to disappoint — @realDonaldTrump is terrific. #DealWithIt.”
Mr. Cruz and his allies believe that he stands to benefit the most from any collapse by Mr. Trump. According to a New York Times/CBS News poll this week, Mr. Cruz is the preferred second choice of 26 percent of Trump supporters, the most of anyone in the field.
Yet for Mr. Cruz, patience is risky. 
Mr. Cruz’s standing has risen nationally, and he has emerged as a force in Iowa, leading in one recent survey and securing several important endorsements. But he continues to trail Mr. Trump, typically by double-digit margins, in most state and national polls.
It is also unclear if Mr. Trump’s supporters, including the many who have limited experience in Republican primaries, will prove transferable if Mr. Trump exits the race.
“One of Cruz’s assumptions is that all those voters will stay in the primary electorate,” David Winston, a Republican pollster, said. “We just don’t know if that’s the case.”
Edward J. Rollins, a veteran Republican strategist, said Mr. Cruz stood to gain little from confronting Mr. Trump more directly.
“Trump’s either going to self-destruct or not pay attention to the details you need to pay attention to,” Mr. Rollins said. With Mr. Trump in the race, he added, “Cruz is not the guy everybody’s attacking.”
Mr. Cruz appears confident in what he openly described at the fund-raiser this week as his “bear hug” approach, suggesting that he has given deep thought about how to position himself relative to Mr. Trump and the angry Republican electorate.
In a recent interview, he cited his experience “framing the narrative” in law and politics. He said he had long “focused intently on Sun Tzu’s principle that every battle is won before it is fought.”
“It is won by choosing the terrain on which the battle is fought,” he said.
Mr. Cruz also seems intent on avoiding returning fire at Mr. Trump and aiding a third candidate in the race, a dynamic with some historical precedent. In 2004, sniping between Howard Dean and Richard A. Gephardt helped John Kerry come from behind to win the Iowa Democratic caucus.
In the interview, Mr. Cruz indicated that he would be willing to contrast himself with Mr. Trump, if necessary, on policy grounds. He has done so gingerly at times, most notably after Mr. Trump’s call to ban Muslims from entering the United States.
Mr. Cruz underscored that his experience taking on the Washington establishment was “markedly different” from anyone else’s in the race. Asked if that included Mr. Trump, Mr. Cruz repeated himself.
WASHINGTON — Click on the “About Doris” button on the congressional website of Representative Doris Matsui, and you will learn that she grew up on a farm in California’s Central Valley. You will not learn that she was born in the Arizona desert, in a desolate internment camp where Japanese-Americans were imprisoned in former stables during World War II.
“We don’t talk about it,” Ms. Matsui, a Democrat from Sacramento, said in an interview.
But that reticence is ending, now that Donald J. Trump and, before him, the mayor of Roanoke, Va., have approvingly invoked President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s internment program as policy precedent — and political cover — for proposals taking aim at Muslims amid Americans’ growing fears of terrorism.
Mr. Trump, who is leading polls in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, justified his proposal to bar Muslims from entering the United States by saying on ABC’s “Good Morning America” on Tuesday that “what I’m doing now is no different than F.D.R.”
“I mean, take a look at what F.D.R. did many years ago, and he’s one of the most highly respected presidents,” he added.
What Mr. Trump did not mention is that Roosevelt’s incarceration from 1942 to 1945 of about 120,000 people of Japanese extraction is not only considered one of the darkest moments in American history, but it was also officially repudiated in 1988 by an act of Congress.
That measure, signed into law by President Ronald Reagan, apologized on behalf of the nation for the wartime actions and provided $20,000 in reparations for each survivor. It blamed “race prejudice, war hysteria and a failure of political leadership” after the attack on Pearl Harbor for the actions against Japanese-Americans.
“Why in the world is Donald Trump even drawing this connection now?” Ms. Matsui said from her Capitol Hill office. “The mayor of Roanoke is one thing, but this person is running for president of the United States. And he’s becoming a vessel for all of these horrible types of fear-mongering and bigotry.”
Mr. Trump, whose campaign did not respond to a request for comment, stood by his remarks under repeated questioning and international criticism this week, to the delight of his audiences.
The Roanoke mayor, David Bowers, a Democrat, has apologized for citing Roosevelt’s actions as he called for barring Syrian refugees from the Roanoke Valley. (He had said last month: “I’m reminded that President Franklin D. Roosevelt felt compelled to sequester Japanese foreign nationals after the bombing of Pearl Harbor. And it appears that the threat of harm to America from ISIS now is just as real and as serious as that from our enemies then.”)
Passage of the law in 1988 ended years of debate over whether and how the United States should account for the internment of citizens — or so supporters like Ms. Matsui thought.
“To me, this was settled law, right?” she said. “And it was the greatness of this country to admit this mistake.”
But then came the implicit endorsements of the internment program by Mr. Bowers and Mr. Trump. “If people forget about history, it could happen again,” Ms. Matsui said.
The circumstances are different — Roosevelt rounded up citizens; Mr. Trump wants to bar Muslim visitors — but the motivation is the same, she said: “It is fear of the unknown that would drive people to fear-mongering and then outright bigotry.”
Ms. Matsui’s husband, Robert T. Matsui, who spent 26 years in Congress and was succeeded by his wife after he died in 2005, was a sponsor of the 1988 redress legislation. He was 6 months old when his family was uprooted from Sacramento, limited to one suitcase a person, and shipped north to the Tule Lake segregation center on the border with Oregon, one of the 10 internment camps.
As the House was about to give final approval to the apology and reparations in August 1988, Mr. Matsui said in a speech from the House floor that the acknowledgment of wrongdoing “demonstrates the true character of America in a way that the whole world can recognize.”
The votes in the House and the Senate were bipartisan, though more than half of Republicans in the House and nearly half in the Senate opposed the measure, despite Reagan’s endorsement. Opponents objected to the cost and the precedent of paying reparations, and to second-guessing decades-old actions taken during wartime.
The opponents included some Republicans still in Congress or prominent in national politics, among them Mitch McConnell, now the Senate majority leader; Senator John McCain of Arizona; and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, who was a member of the House and is now running for president.
Among the Republican supporters were Dick Cheney, then a party leader in the House; Newt Gingrich, who later became speaker; Bob Dole, then the Senate Republican leader; and Alan K. Simpson, then the assistant leader.
Mr. Simpson was a sponsor of the measure, which helps explain the support of Mr. Cheney; they were friends who represented Wyoming. Mr. Simpson, who is well known for his folksy outspokenness on politics, was unavailable to comment on the internment actions or on Mr. Trump.
This week, Mr. Simpson was on an Atlantic cruise with another congressional sponsor of the 1988 bill, Norman Y. Mineta, seven decades into a friendship that began at the Heart Mountain internment camp in Wyoming. In the early 1940s, Mr. Mineta was a preteenager from San Jose, Calif., who lived inside the camp. Mr. Simpson was the same age, growing up 14 miles away in Cody.
Japanese-American adults at the cold, windswept Heart Mountain had formed Boy Scout troops for the children there, and each day, the scouts would raise the American flag and recite the Pledge of Allegiance. At one point, the adults decided to invite scouts from nearby towns to a Jamboree.
In Cody and Powell, stores, restaurants and hotels had posted “No Japs Allowed” signs. But scouts from the towns — including the young Mr. Simpson — went to Heart Mountain, passing behind the barbed wire, guard towers, guns and search lights.
He and Mr. Mineta stayed in touch through the years, and reunited in Congress in the late 1970s into the ’90s. Mr. Mineta later would be secretary of commerce and transportation. On the cruise this week with their wives, they were part of the ship’s “enrichment program,” hired to speak to passengers about their friendship, and how it came to be.They have done this seaborne engagement before, last year in the South China Sea. But this time, their recollections were resonant not only because of the recent anniversary of Japan’s attack on Pearl Harbor, but also because of Mr. Trump’s evocation of the post-attack internments to justify his call, after the killing of 14 people in San Bernardino, Calif., for excluding Muslims from America.
DES MOINES — Senator Ted Cruz of Texas surged to a 10-point lead in a new poll released Saturday of likely Republican caucusgoers in Iowa, signaling that his campaign is gathering momentum and suggesting that a long nominating fight is ahead.
Donald J. Trump, who continues to lead most national polls, was second in the Iowa poll, with 21 percent naming him as their first choice, compared with Mr. Cruz’s 31 percent.
Ben Carson, after leading an October survey by the same pollster, commissioned by The Des Moines Register and Bloomberg Politics, tumbled to 13 percent, followed by Senator Marco Rubio of Florida at 10 percent. 
The survey, by one of Iowa’s most respected pollsters, comes as Mr. Trump is increasingly hoping that a win in Iowa, whose caucuses are less than eight weeks away, will be a lightning strike on his way to the nomination.
“If we win Iowa, I think we run the table,” Mr. Trump said on Friday at a rally in Des Moines. He is far ahead in polls of the other early-voting states.
But Mr. Cruz’s sudden momentum in Iowa complicates Mr. Trump’s plan. It could set up a protracted primary between Mr. Cruz as the choice of far-right Republicans, Mr. Trump as an anti-establishment outsider and perhaps a third candidate representing the center-right of the party.
Mr. Cruz gained 21 percentage points in two months since the last Register poll. He has visited the state almost weekly, making the case that he is the answer to the right’s long search for a conservative with unwavering principles and deep resources. Mr. Cruz was the top choice in the poll of evangelical Christians (45 percent) and Tea Party conservatives (39 percent). 
The poll provided a snapshot of how conservative Iowa’s likely Republican voters are. Nearly six in 10 say climate change is a hoax. More than half want mass deportations of illegal immigrants. Six in 10 would abolish the Internal Revenue Service. 
With ample opportunities to see candidates up close, Iowans have distinct impressions. Mr. Cruz ranked highest on having the right temperament to be president and the right values to lead the nation. Mr. Trump, who draws the largest crowds of any candidate, nonetheless ranked behind Mr. Cruz, Mr. Carson and Mr. Rubio on the temperament question. He was seen as best able to solve illegal immigration, manage the economy and defeat Hillary Clinton in a general election.
The race also remains fluid. Two out of three voters say they could be persuaded to choose someone else. That is hopeful news for Jeb Bush, in fifth place with 6 percent, and three others at 3 percent: Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.
Long locked in a mutual nonaggression pact, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump have teetered on the brink of hostilities in recent days.
After studiously avoiding any public attacks on Mr. Trump for fear of becoming a target of his derision, Mr. Cruz privately told donors on Wednesday that Mr. Trump had questionable judgment, according to a recording of his remarks. The comments came two days after Mr. Trump proposed barring Muslims from entering the United States as a way to combat terrorism; Mr. Cruz said he disagreed but did not criticize Mr. Trump as others have.
In a series of Twitter posts after his “judgment” comments became public, Mr. Cruz tried to play down any rift, while Mr. Trump moved toward escalation.
Mr. Cruz wrote: “The Establishment’s only hope: Trump & me in a cage match. Sorry to disappoint — @realDonaldTrump is terrific.”
Mr. Trump struck a different tone. “Looks like @tedcruz is getting ready to attack,” he wrote. “I am leading by so much he must. I hope so, he will fall like all others. Will be easy!”
And in a speech in Des Moines on Friday, Mr. Trump criticized Mr. Cruz’s opposition to federal support for ethanol, an important state industry, and in a more audacious attack, he questioned Mr. Cruz’s faith. “And by the way, I do like Ted Cruz,” he said, “but not a lot of evangelicals come out of Cuba.”
Mr. Cruz, whose father emigrated from Cuba and is a fiery evangelical pastor, has succeeded more than any other candidate in enlisting conservative Christian support in Iowa. On Thursday, he won the endorsement of Bob Vander Plaats, a leader of the Christian right in Iowa.
Despite Mr. Trump’s repeated assertions that he is “doing really well with the evangelicals,” his attack on Mr. Cruz’s faith risks pushing away that large group of politically active voters, who in the past two Republican caucuses played a decisive role in choosing the winner, Mike Huckabee in 2008 and Rick Santorum in 2012.
Mr. Trump sought on Friday to undermine the credibility of The Register poll even before it appeared, singling out the newspaper, the most influential in Iowa, during a customary interlude in which he attacks the news media.
“I’ll tell you, you have one of the most dishonest right here in your backyard: The Des Moines Register is the worst,” he said to cheers and applause. “Some reporter named Jacobs, she is the worst,” he said, referring to The Register’s lead political reporter, Jennifer Jacobs.
He accused the paper’s polling, which has consistently been among the most accurate in surveying Iowa voters, of being biased against him.
Mr. Trump has railed against The Register since the paper’s editorial board called on him to quit the race in July because “he has polluted the political waters.” The editorial board, which endorsed Mitt Romney before the 2012 caucuses, has not yet announced its preference for 2016. On Friday, Mr. Trump promised to campaign aggressively in Iowa as the Feb. 1 caucuses approach. “If I win Iowa, I think it’s over,” he repeated.
Mr. Trump’s fear seems to be that if no candidate enters the Republican convention in July with enough delegates to win, it would trigger a stop-Trump movement with lower-performing candidates throwing their support to one of his competitors.
He warned Friday of “bloodsucker politicians” controlling the convention and also repeated his threat to run as an independent. “You’ll know in a month or two whether the establishment is treating me favorably,” he said.
Here are the week’s top stories.
1. A landmark climate accord was approved by representatives of 195 countries on Saturday, a momentous turning point that scientists and world leaders say offered the last, best hope of averting the most devastating impacts of global warming. “We met the moment,” President Obama said, celebrating a legacy-shaping success. “Together, we’ve shown what’s possible when the world stands as one.”
_____
2. The attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif., have pushed Americans’ anxiety about terrorism to levels not seen since shortly after Sept. 11, 2001. Episodes of possible backlash against Muslims appear to be escalating again. A county supervisor who visited a California mosque that was burned last week said that the arsonists ”should be treated the way we would any other terrorist.”
_____
3. The White House considered setting up a network of foreign military bases for counterterrorism, and President Obama ordered a review of the the K-1 visa program, which allowed the female suspect in the San Bernardino attack to move to the U.S. despite having expressed support for violent jihad on social media. U.S.-backed forces made military gains against the Islamic State in the Mideast.
_____
4. The long train of funerals for the 14 people killed in San Bernardino began. Investigators recovered items from a lake that the suspected shooters may have visited, and one of the suspect’s childhood friends is under intense scrutiny.
_____
5. Donald Trump’s call to bar Muslims from entering the U.S. hijacked the presidential race ahead of Tuesday’s Republican debate, the fifth, which CNN will stream free from Las Vegas. The nation’s highest-ranking Republican, Paul Ryan, called for the party to abandon “darker emotions,” saying “If we run on personality, we lose those elections.” The third Democratic debate comes Saturday in New Hampshire, one of the few states where Bernie Sanders leads Hillary Clinton in polls.
_____
6. The fight over gun control took on a new intensity. The Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of an Illinois municipality’s ban on assault weapons, and Connecticut’s governor barred people on federal terrorism watch lists from buying guns in his state. Monday is the third anniversary of Connecticut’s worst episode of gun violence, a mass shooting that killed 20 children and six adults at the Sandy Hook elementary school.
_____
7. The Heisman Trophy went to Derrick Henry, the workhorse Alabama running back who has only gotten better over the college football season. In the last two games, he carried the ball 90 times for 460 yards. “If you believe it, you can achieve it,” he said.
_____
8. Dupont and Dow, two of the biggest and oldest chemical corporations in the U.S., agreed to a $130 billion merger — which regulators must approve — to be followed by a split into three companies. A farming advocate worried that the further consolidation of seed suppliers would “give farmers fewer choices and put them at even more economic disadvantage.”
Declining oil prices drove the S.&P. 500 down nearly 4 percent for the week. The Dow and Nasdaq also dropped.
_____
9. Videos of police shootings of black men prompted calls for the resignation of Chicago’s mayor and a march on San Francisco’s city hall. Other accusations of police abuses wended through the courts. In Baltimore, an officer on trial said he thought Freddie Gray was faking his injuries, and in Oklahoma, a jury recommended more than 200 years in prison for a former officer convicted of sexually assaulting 13 black women.
_____
10. The new “Star Wars” movie opens Thursday night, which will be almost two weeks after people started lining up outside the TCL Chinese Theater Imax in Hollywood. It’s not your ordinary line, though: Fans check in and out, earning the right to buy two tickets for opening night with every 24 hours logged.
_____
11. Saudi women voted for the first time on Saturday, and some even stood as candidates in local elections. The expansion of rights comes at a time of great social change in Saudi Arabia, which is ruled by an absolute monarch and according to Shariah law — and still forbids women to drive.
_____
12. A North Korean girl band caught a plane home hours before it was supposed to play its first concert in Beijing. No explanation was offered. So the trip, an effort to improve sometimes rocky relations with China, instead ended up underscoring the mercurial nature of the North’s leader (and the band’s biggest fan), Kim Jong-un.
Have a great week.
_____
Karen Workman contributed reporting.
Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Evening Briefing, weeknights at 6 p.m. Eastern.
Want to look back? Here’s Friday’s Evening Briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
NEW YORK — Welcome to Weimar America: It’s getting restive in the beer halls. People are sick of politics as usual. They want blunt talk. They want answers.
Welcome to an angry nation stung by two lost wars, its politics veering to the extremes, its mood vengeful, beset by decades of stagnant real wages for most people, tempted by a strongman who would keep all Muslims out and vows to restore American greatness.
“We’re going to be so tough and so mean and so nasty,” Donald Trump says in response to the San Bernardino massacre. People roar. He calls for a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States.” People roar. “People want strength,” he says. People roar. His poll numbers go up. Pundits, even the longtime guru of Republican political branding, Karl Rove, shake their heads.
Trump is a clown. No, he is not. He is in earnest. And he’s onto something. It is foolish not to take him seriously.
A near perfect storm for his rabble-rousing is upon the United States. China is rising. American power is ebbing. The tectonic plates of global security are shifting. Afghanistan and Iraq have been the graveyards of glory. There is fear, after the killing in California inspired by the Islamic State, of an enemy within.
Over more than a decade, American blood and treasure have been expended, to little avail. President Obama claims his strategy against Islamist jihadist terrorism, which he often sugarcoats as “violent extremism,” is working. There is little or no evidence of that.
A lot of Americans struggle to get by, their pay no match for prices.
Along comes Trump, the high-energy guy. He promises an American revival, a reinvention, even a renaissance. He insults Muslims, Mexicans, the disabled, women. His words are hateful and scurrilous. They play on fears. They are subjected to horrified analysis. Yet they do not hurt him. He gets people’s blood up. He says what others whisper. He cuts through touchy-feely all-enveloping political correctness. This guy will give Putin a run for his money! His poll numbers rise.
It would be foolish and dangerous not to take him seriously. His bombast is attuned to Weimar America. The United States is not paying reparations, as Weimar Germany was after World War I. Hyperinflation does not loom. But the Europeanization of American politics is unmistakable.
America, like Europe, is rattled by Islamic State terrorism and unsure how to respond to the black-flagged death merchants. Its polarized politics seem broken. The right of Donald Trump and the right of France’s Marine Le Pen overlap on terrorism and immigration. On the American left, Bernie Sanders sounds like nothing so much as a European social democrat. But that’s another story.
Le Pen is now a serious candidate for the French presidency in 2017. Her strong first-round performance in regional elections was not matched in the second round. She faded. But as with Trump, she answers the popular call for an end to business as usual after two Paris massacres this year in which the Islamic State had a role. The three jihadists who killed 90 Friday-night revelers in the Bataclan club were French citizens believed to have been trained in Syria.
“Islamist fundamentalism must be annihilated,” Le Pen says. People roar. “France must ban Islamist organizations,” she says. People roar. It must “expel foreigners who preach hatred in our country as well as illegal migrants who have nothing to do here.” People roar.
There is no question Le Pen is being taken seriously in France. Europe’s watchword is vigilance. Its entire postwar reconstruction has been premised on the conviction that peace, integration, economic union and the welfare state were the best insurance against the return to power of the fascist right.
That conviction is shaken. The rise of the Islamic State, and the Western inability to contain it, leads straight to the Islamophobia in which Trump and Le Pen traffic with success. It would be hard to imagine an atmosphere better suited to the politics of fear. Americans say they are more fearful of terrorism than at any time since 9/11.
“Every time things get worse, I do better,” Trump says. He does. They may get still worse.
The Europeanization of American politics is also the Europeanization of American political risk. The unthinkable has happened in Europe. It is not impossible in America.
It would be wrong not to take Trump very seriously. It would be irresponsible. It would be to forget European history, from whose fascist example he borrows. In Weimar America politics are not what they were. The establishment looks tired. The establishment has not understood the fact-lite theater of the contemporary world.
The Weimar Republic ended with a clown’s ascent to power, a high-energy buffoon who shouted loudest, a bully from the beer halls, a racist and a bigot. He was an outsider given to theatrics and pageantry. He seduced the nation of Beethoven. He took the world down with him.
Despite controversy after controversy, Donald Trump still dominates the polls. With his seemingly impervious lead, it is tempting to declare that he is a clear front-runner for the nomination.
He has, after all, defied all expectations of his impending demise, including an early one from this author. If he has survived everything so far, why should he lose now?
Mr. Trump has emerged as a true factional candidate — much more like Howard Dean or Pat Buchanan than Herman Cain, or other candidates who have surged to the top of the polls only to collapse.
But it’s still too soon to say Mr. Trump is the front-runner for the nomination. He has a high floor but a low ceiling, and although he has weathered many controversies, the toughest days are yet to come.
The polls already show initial signs of those challenges, like Ted Cruz’s lead in Iowa; the number of Republicans who say they would not support him; his weakness in polls of verified voters; and his smaller or nonexistent leads in one-on-one matchups against likely rivals.
His chances of winning — which are real, even if not good — depend much more on the weaknesses of his opponents than his own strengths. The good news for Mr. Trump is that the opposition is flawed enough to entertain such an outcome.
The notion that Mr. Trump should be considered a strong front-runner based on current polls is understandable, but inconsistent with recent history. In nearly every election cycle, there are candidates who lead national polls and sometimes even win states, but don’t come close to winning the nomination.
The polls at this volatile stage can be particularly misleading. Just consider where we were four years ago, when the race was transitioning from the Cain surge to the Newt Gingrich surge. Or four years before that, when neither John McCain nor Barack Obama led nationally or in any early state. At this point in 2004, Mr. Dean led in Iowa, New Hampshire and in national polls. He took a distant third place in Iowa — and that was before his famous scream. Ultimately, he won only his home state, Vermont.
Mr. Trump shares a lot in common with strong factional candidates who have ultimately fallen short in recent cycles: He does not have broad appeal throughout the party; he is unacceptable to the party’s establishment; and there are reasons to believe that his high numbers may be driven by unsustainable factors — like voters who are less likely to turn out or who are responding to pollsters with “Trump” because they haven’t heard any other name for four months.
Some recent comparisons can tell us a lot about the ways that seemingly strong candidates can go on to lose. Mr. Trump could follow in the footsteps of Mr. Dean, who faltered over the final 45 days of the primary process, as voters questioned his temperament and electability.
Mr. Trump will face similar questions, and there are additional questions about the solidity of his support. He tends to do worse in opinion surveys that use people from the voter registration file; the file allows pollsters to narrow their sample to past primary voters. And his dominance of media coverage may be harder to sustain once the field narrows, or actual voting results roll in. (On Monday, he was subject to rare criticism from conservative radio hosts.)
Then there is the path of Mitt Romney, who led in both Iowa and New Hampshire at this point eight years ago. He didn’t collapse, but nonetheless lost both early states. Two candidates who fit the states well — Mike Huckabee and Mr. McCain — took the lead. Something similar may be happening in Iowa, where Mr. Cruz has taken a lead in recent polls. The same thing could ultimately happen in New Hampshire, where a total of nearly 40 percent of voters support one of five establishment candidates.
Of course, Mr. Trump could defy all of this: His opponents could sputter, and his supporters could turn out. But then he would have to overcome the Pat Buchanan scenario. In 1996, Mr. Buchanan won the New Hampshire primary, defeating a strong front-runner, Bob Dole.
But Mr. Buchanan did not win another primary. The field thinned, as other establishment-friendly candidates like Lamar Alexander faded or left the race. Mr. Buchanan’s appeal was too narrow.
Here’s why that comparison might be apt. Although Mr. Trump undoubtedly has a strong base, many polls show that nearly as many Republican voters say they will definitely not vote for him as those that say they will. And he is benefiting from a weak, fractured opposition.
Polls pitting Mr. Trump against Mr. Cruz or Marco Rubio in a one-on-one matchup have shown a far tighter race than is reflected in the 14-way national surveys. A recent YouGov poll, for instance, showed Mr. Trump at 34 percent in the 14-way race — a better result for him than in most polls — but in essentially a dead heat (51 to 49 percent, either way) in a one-on-one matchup against Mr. Cruz or Mr. Rubio.
It would be tough for Mr. Trump to prevail in a one-on-one contest against a typical mainstream Republican, much in the same way that Mr. Buchanan quickly faltered against Mr. Dole.
The catch, though, is that there is no Bob Dole in this race.
There has not been a year when the mainstream candidates have been so weak while factional candidates have been so strong. Perhaps the closest example is the 2004 Democratic primary, but Mr. Dean — a governor who even managed to win the endorsement of Al Gore — was much more acceptable to his party than Mr. Trump and even Mr. Cruz are to theirs. To some extent, this is just a matter of chance: Donald Trumps don’t come around every four years. But it is also a reflection of a Republican Party that is too divided to act in the way that parties usually behave.
The mainstream candidates might not stay this weak forever. Mr. Trump will not be accepted by the party’s establishment, and he will remain unacceptable to a large number of its well-educated voters. This gives the party time to coalesce behind a candidate, like Mr. Rubio. The primary calendar is structured in a way that makes it easier for the party to take its time, too, because relatively moderate blue states come later in the season. The longer it takes for the establishment to elevate a strong candidate, though, the greater the odds that no candidate earns a majority of delegates before the convention.
Ultimately, the longer the rest of the party remains as weak and fractured as it is, the easier it is to imagine how a candidate with a high floor and a low ceiling, like Mr. Trump or Mr. Cruz, could thread the needle to the nomination.
Senator Marco Rubio has gone on the attack recently against Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz, who are leading in the polls nationally and in Iowa. But with this commercial, which began running on Tuesday, he instead appeals directly to their core supporters: people who feel disaffected from American politics.
An oversize American flag billowing in the shadows behind him, a tiny flag pinned to his lapel, Mr. Rubio speaks softly but urgently, directly to the camera, throughout this 30-second commercial, over a swelling score of patriotic-sounding music. In a blue suit and tie, the Florida senator seems to be striving to look and sound as presidential as possible.
To Mr. Trump’s followers, Mr. Rubio says the election is “about all of us who feel out of place in our own country.” To the evangelical Christians coalescing around Mr. Cruz, he laments the “millions with traditional values branded bigots and haters.” Like both those rivals, Mr. Rubio expresses disgust with President Obama, concluding by saying that the race is “about the greatest country in the world — and acting like it.”
Mr. Rubio’s contention that Mr. Obama has been “humiliated by Putin, Iran and Islamic jihadists” would surely draw objections from many, not least the president himself, who says that his nuclear deal will prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons, and that the United States-led military effort is hitting the Islamic State “harder than ever.”
On broadcast stations in New Hampshire and Iowa.
For months, Mr. Rubio scolded Mr. Trump for saying that America’s greatness needed to be restored. Now, with his grim assessment of the nation’s predicament and his call for “acting like” it is the greatest country in the world, Mr. Rubio seems to be seconding Mr. Trump’s critique.
Donald J. Trump’s proposal to bar Muslim noncitizens from entering the United States, at least temporarily, does not appear to be broadly popular with Americans. But exactly how unpopular it is depends on what question a pollster asked, and possibly on whether a human or a machine asked it.
Here are six survey questions asked by pollsters in the last week, and the results they found.
NBC NEWS/WALL STREET JOURNAL “Recently, Donald Trump has called for a total and complete shutdown for any Muslim being allowed to enter the United States. Do you favor or oppose this proposal or do you not have an opinion one way or the other?” 25 percent favor, 57 percent oppose. (-32)
CBS NEWS “Do you think the U.S. should temporarily ban Muslims from other countries from entering the United States, or not?” 36 percent support, 58 percent oppose. (-22)
ABC NEWS/WASHINGTON POST “Trump has proposed banning Muslims who are not U.S. citizens from entering the United States for the time being. He says this would improve security against terrorism. Others say security would not be improved, and it’s wrong to bar people from the United States because of their religion. What’s your opinion — would you support a ban on Muslims entering the United States, or do you think this would be the wrong thing to do?” 36 percent support, 60 percent oppose. (-24)
BLOOMBERG/PURPLE STRATEGIES “This week, Donald Trump called for a temporary ban on all Muslims who are citizens of foreign countries from entering the United States. Do you favor or oppose this proposal?” 37 percent favor, 50 percent oppose. (-13)
YOUGOV “Do you agree or disagree that there should be ‘a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on’?” 45 percent agree, 41 percent disagree. (+4)
RASMUSSEN REPORTS “Do you favor or oppose a temporary ban on all Muslims entering the United States until the federal government improves its ability to screen out potential terrorists from coming here?” 46 percent favor, 40 percent oppose. (+6)
Three of these surveys (by NBC, ABC and CBS) found strong opposition. They used people to ask the questions over the phone. NBC’s poll did not even find majority support among Republicans, though ABC and CBS (which specified that the ban would be temporary) did.
The other three surveys (Bloomberg, YouGov and Rasmussen Reports) didn’t require respondents to talk to a person — they were conducted online or (in Rasmussen’s case) through automated phone interviews. These surveys found more support for and less opposition to a ban. Two of them actually found more supporters than opponents.
As Ariel Edwards-Levy noted at Huffington Post, the machines could be responsible for two effects: Respondents may be more willing to express socially unacceptable views to a machine than to a person, or automated polls may simply be reaching a differently composed population of respondents.
There are also issues of how the questions were framed. NBC, which found the weakest support for the ban, was the only organization that did not specify that the ban would be temporary. YouGov and Rasmussen, which found the most favorable views toward the ban, not only said it would be temporary but also specified an endpoint (“until our country’s representatives can figure out what is going on”/”until the federal government improves its ability to screen out potential terrorists”).
YouGov and Rasmussen, which got the most positive response for a ban, also happened to omit mention of the candidate behind the proposal. But then, so did CBS, which still found strong opposition to the idea.
So where does that leave us? It’s impossible to look at this set of polls and figure out how the public “really” feels. That’s not a novel problem when polls try to get at people’s attitudes about issues, which tend to get caught up in frames. Public opinion polling on the Affordable Care Act, for example, is heavily influenced by how its provisions are described, and whether they are associated with President Obama.
The varying results highlight the challenge of polling today, especially about issue positions.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Donald J. Trump’s Republican rivals united against his proposal to bar Muslims from entering the United States, and all nine candidates tussled over which of them would be toughest against terrorist threats.
_____
_____
2. “We can never say it often or loudly enough: Immigrants and refugees revitalize and renew America,” President Obama told 31 people newly sworn in as U.S. citizens. His speech, in a room at the National Archives that holds originals of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, offered an implicit rebuke to the tenor of the Republican campaigns.
_____
3. The Los Angeles school system defended itself for closing more than 1,000 schools after receiving a bomb threat eventually judged a hoax, like a similar threat in New York. The L.A. police chief said it was “very easy to criticize a decision when you have no responsibility for the outcome of that decision.”
_____
4. A Baltimore jury deadlocked in the first of six trials against police officers in the death of Freddie Gray, but the judge ordered jurors to continue deliberating. The case against William Porter, above, is seen as a bellwether for the next trial, involving an officer charged with murder.
_____
_____
5. Who owns the great mansions of L.A.? It’s increasingly hard to say, because most of the time shell companies mask buyers’ identities. A shell company is also keeping the developer of this Bel Air mansion, known derisively as “the Starship Enterprise,” at a legal remove from 60 pages of violations.
_____
6. A real spaceship took three more astronauts to the International Space Station. One was Britain’s first official astronaut, Tim Peake, making the launch so thrilling to one British reporter that he told Mr. Peake: “You will be taking the pride and excitement of everybody back home, so much so that you probably won’t need any fuel to get into orbit.”
_____
7. The U.S. government reported a giant rush to sign up for health care just ahead of the deadline for policies that begin Jan. 1. And a new study discredited a commonly used measure of health care costs, demonstrating that an area’s Medicare spending offers absolutely no certainty that spending on private health care matches.
_____
8. Russia’s bombing has failed to change the military map in Syria, but it has helped Russia end the isolation imposed by the West over Ukraine. Secretary of State John Kerry met with his Russian counterpart in Moscow to try to create progress on a negotiated end to the conflict.
_____
9. Congressional leaders said they were near a deal on a $1.1 trillion spending bill likely to expand aid for 9/11 emergency workers and unlikely to bar Syrian refugees. Paul Ryan, the House speaker, spoke of “compromises” and said the final vote would come Thursday.
_____
10. Here’s a nice bit of sports history. A recently recovered 1939 recording reveals that basketball’s first game, in 1891, was a disaster, rife with tackling, kicking and punching. So the game’s inventor, James Naismith, set up 13 rules, including “no running with the ball,” and “we didn’t have one casualty.”
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Donald J. Trump came under sustained attack from Jeb Bush and other Republican presidential candidates on Tuesday night as they united against his plan to bar Muslims from entering the United States while tussling over who would be toughest in protecting Americans from terrorist threats.
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida also faced his toughest moments of the race during the latest Republican debate as a top rival, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, repeatedly questioned his conservative credentials and his judgment on national security and immigration. Though Mr. Rubio at times seemed to gain the upper hand, he looked and sounded rattled as Mr. Cruz portrayed him as lining up with liberals like Senator Chuck Schumer of New York in favoring “amnesty” for immigrants who are in the country illegally.
Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor who is struggling in the polls, was withering as he assailed Mr. Trump’s harsh words and ominous warnings about Muslims and mosques since the mass shootings in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif. While Mr. Trump has managed to channel and stoke the fears of many Americans, Mr. Bush led his rivals in portraying him as a fearmonger more interested in scaring voters than in planning an effective war against the Islamic State.
“Donald, you’re not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency — that’s not going to happen,” Mr. Bush said. “Leadership is not about attacking people and disparaging people. Leadership is about creating a serious strategy.”
Mr. Trump, who has belittled Mr. Bush’s energy and strength since entering the race in June, suggested that his rival was simply pretending to be tough. But his counterattack seemed to backfire, drawing a rebuke from the audience.
“With Jeb’s attitude, we will never be great again, that I can tell you — we will never be great again,” Mr. Trump said, to loud boos.
In the evening’s other major subplot, Mr. Rubio, who has increased his attacks on the surging Mr. Cruz over the last month, engaged his colleague in their most pointed face-to-face confrontation yet. Trying to defuse criticism over his leading role in the 2013 legislation to offer unauthorized immigrants a path to citizenship, Mr. Rubio asserted that Mr. Cruz also wanted to offer legal status to those immigrants.
Mr. Cruz said Mr. Rubio was trying to “muddy the waters” and “raise confusion,” and linked Mr. Rubio to Mr. Schumer and President Obama on the issue.
“I led the fight against his legalization and amnesty” bill, Mr. Cruz said, arguing that to claim his and Mr. Rubio’s records on the issue were the same was “like suggesting the fireman and the arsonist have the same record because they were both at the scene of the fire.”
But when pressed by Mr. Rubio and a moderator on whether he would rule out legalizing undocumented immigrants, Mr. Cruz appeared to leave himself a measure of space.
“I have never supported legalization, and I do not intend to support legalization,” he said.
The exchanges between Mr. Rubio and Mr. Cruz, who have emerged as leading candidates recently, highlighted the party’s most glaring divisions: on immigration, intelligence gathering and foreign intervention. 
Mr. Rubio has positioned himself as a Republican who would have been at home in the George W. Bush administration, a hawk on national security but a pragmatist on immigration. (He has, though, backed off his support for a comprehensive immigration overhaul in the face of scathing criticism from the right.)
Mr. Cruz, by contrast, has tried to run as a post-Bush Republican, taking a hard line on immigration while seeking a middle ground between the party’s interventionists and libertarians on defense issues.
After Mr. Rubio tried to portray him as soft on national security, Mr. Cruz linked him to Democratic foreign policy on crises like Libya.
“One of the problems with Marco’s foreign policy is he has far too often supported Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama undermining governments in the Middle East that have helped radical Islamic terrorists,” Mr. Cruz said. “We need to focus on killing the bad guys, not getting stuck in Middle Eastern civil wars that don’t keep America safe.”
Mr. Rubio shot back that while Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton wanted to “lead from behind,” Mr. Cruz was suggesting “not to lead at all.”
Safety and fear have not loomed so powerfully over a debate, or an electorate, since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But if the threat of terrorism has become the defining issue in the race, Republicans are sharply divided on the toughest and smartest strategies to prevent more attacks.
The candidates used words like “angry” and “betrayed” as they described an America besieged by terrorist threats and exposed and vulnerable after seven years of Mr. Obama’s leadership, which they argued Mrs. Clinton, who polls show is leading the Democratic race, would only continue.
The campaign’s new focus on terrorism was on display when Mr. Cruz was questioned about his vote to halt the National Security Agency’s ability to collect bulk phone data. He framed the measure, which ended elements of the Patriot Act, as a “reform of how we target bad guys” and argued that it had actually helped fight terrorism.
Mr. Rubio, though, kept the focus on ending the bulk data collection, arguing that Mr. Cruz had given away “a valuable tool” against terrorism.
“I promise you, the next time there is an attack on this country, the first thing people are going to want to know is, why didn’t we know about it and why didn’t we stop it?” Mr. Rubio said. “And the answer better not be, ‘Because we didn’t have access to records or information that would have allowed us to identify these killers before they attack.’ ”
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, though, came to Mr. Cruz’s defense with a fierce attack on Mr. Rubio. Mr. Paul, who has sought to revive his languishing campaign by reasserting his libertarianism, mocked Mr. Rubio for proclaiming himself “great and strong on national defense” when, Mr. Paul said, he was “the weakest of all the candidates on immigration.”
“He has more of an allegiance to Chuck Schumer and the liberals than he does on conservative policy,” Mr. Paul said, referring to Mr. Rubio’s work with Mr. Schumer on an immigration overhaul.
Forced to respond to Mr. Trump’s proposal to bar Muslims from America, Mr. Cruz — who is ahead of Mr. Trump in Iowa in one poll — and Mr. Rubio, who has also been gaining strength, only briefly registered their opposition before focusing their fire on Mr. Obama.
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, enjoying a measure of good timing, won applause at the Las Vegas debate after the bickering among Mr. Cruz, Mr. Paul and Mr. Rubio by disparaging their place of employment and emphasizing his executive experience.
“This is the difference between having been a federal prosecutor and actually doing something, and just spending your life as one of 100 debating it,” he said. “Let’s talk about how we do this and not about which bill these guys like more. People don’t care about that.”
Mr. Christie repeatedly assailed Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton, saying they had understated the threat from Islamic State terrorists, and argued for more muscular intelligence-gathering tools to “protect the safety and security of Americans.”
But his judgment came under a rare attack from a fellow Republican for his aides’ closing of entrances to the George Washington Bridge. “When we think about the judgment of someone who might want World War III, we might think about someone who might shut down a bridge,” Mr. Paul said.
Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, too, called for more aggressive government surveillance of suspected terrorists. Mr. Bush, while also urging strong law enforcement actions, endorsed the sentiment of President George W. Bush, who said “Islam is peace” after the Sept. 11 attacks.
“We can’t dissociate ourselves from peace-loving Muslims,” Mr. Bush said, responding to a moderator’s question. Reiterating his months-old plan against the Islamic State, he said: “It requires leadership. It’s not filing an amendment and call it a success. It’s about developing a strategy, leading the world.”
Negative exchanges — in word choice, tone, put-downs and facial expressions — dominated the debate, the fifth and final one of the year for the Republicans. The contentiousness reflected an intensely competitive race and a widely held belief among the candidates that anxiety-ridden voters are looking for the fiercest possible nominee — not only against the Islamic State, but also against the likely Democratic candidate, Mrs. Clinton.
The assault on Mr. Trump began in the debate’s opening statements, with Mr. Paul comparing him to totalitarian Chinese officials because he supports monitoring the Internet for suspicious activity. Mr. Bush quickly picked up the theme, saying Mr. Trump was not a serious candidate but merely “great at the one-liners.”
“He is a chaos candidate; he would be a chaos president,” Mr. Bush said. “He would not be the commander in chief we need to keep our country safe.”
Mr. Trump dismissed Mr. Bush’s attacks as the flailing of a fading candidate.
“Jeb doesn’t really believe I’m unhinged,” he said. “He said that very simply because he has failed in this campaign. It’s been a total disaster. Nobody cares.”
Mr. Bush, who grew tougher as the night went on, responded repeatedly that Mr. Trump was not a serious candidate. “Banning all Muslims will make it harder for us to do exactly what we need to do, which is to destroy ISIS,” he said. 
Later, Mr. Bush delivered one of the most biting lines of the night, alluding to a past remark by Mr. Trump about where he got his military advice. “I won’t get my information from the shows,” Mr. Bush said. “I don’t know if that’s Saturday morning or Sunday morning.”
Any expectation that Mr. Cruz and Mr. Trump would clash was snuffed out when Mr. Trump was read back his criticism of Mr. Cruz from last weekend — when he called Mr. Cruz “a maniac” — and retreated from it.
“He’s just fine,” Mr. Trump said, reaching over to pat Mr. Cruz on the back. “Don’t worry about it.”
Earlier, Mr. Cruz engaged Mr. Trump in a bit of bonhomie, joking that he would build a border wall, “and I’ll get Donald Trump to pay for it.”
“I’ll do it!” Mr. Trump responded.
Mr. Trump, after suggesting in recent weeks that he might abandon the party, appeared to reiterate his pledge from earlier in the year that he would not run as a third-party candidate.
And in an interview on CNN after the debate, Mr. Trump was unambiguous. “Yes, I’m a Republican, and I’m going to be a Republican,” he said. “I’m not going to be doing a third-party.”
Ben Carson, the retired neurosurgeon who enjoyed a burst of popularity this fall but has fallen in polls amid questions about his lack of national security experience, salted his remarks with statistics and other evidence of greater preparation. But he was otherwise a low-key presence in the debate, and complained that a “false narrative” had emerged about his readiness to lead the country.
“I have a lot of experience building things, organizing things — a national scholarship program,” Mr. Carson said. “Some people say, ‘You’re weak because you’re not loud and you’re not boisterous and you’re not rude.’ But the fact of the matter is, look and see what I’ve done, and that speaks volumes about strength.”
Someone needs to explain carpets to Ted Cruz.
They’re continuous stretches of material, usually rectangular, sometimes round. They’re not staggered, interrupted, with stops, starts, holes and sharp jags so that they smother and blot out only the evil bits of floor but leave adjacent, innocent ones untouched.
When you call for carpet bombing, as Cruz did again on Tuesday night, you are not outlining a strategy of pinpoint targeting or of any discernment.
You are sounding big and bold and advocating something indiscriminate. That’s the nature of a carpet. You can’t pretend otherwise.
Unless you’re Cruz, who can pretend just about anything.
“You would carpet bomb where ISIS is, not a city, but the location of the troops,” he said, as if there’s no mingling and the fighters of the Islamic State are somehow clustered apart from everyone they control, extinguished with the mere dropping of a rug.
“The object isn’t to level a city,” he added, never specifying how he would separate the good edifices and actors from the bad.
That’s some magic carpet.
And it was a prime example of the bluster and oversimplification on vivid, infuriating display in this Republican presidential debate, the fifth.
It was dominated as none of the four before it by one word, one syllable — “safe,” which was uttered so regularly that it was essentially the heartbeat of the debate.
In the wake of the Paris carnage, following the San Bernardino massacre, on a day when the country’s second-largest school district told children to stay home so that they wouldn’t be victims of violence, Americans wanted to know when and how they’d ever feel unafraid again.
And each of the nine contenders on the stage had one goal above all others: to convince viewers that he or she could be the agent of that fiercely desired security. That he or she could bring back “safe.”
But many of the aspirants had additional aims: to wound the rivals for the nomination who stood most directly in their way. As the night wore on, it degenerated into tedious, often puerile quarrels: between Cruz and Marco Rubio; between Rubio and Rand Paul; between Jeb Bush and Donald Trump.
Actually, the Bush-Trump crossfire was welcome and satisfying, because Bush more than anyone in any of these debates effectively called Trump out for his galling recklessness, and Trump’s responses were as naked a display of his adolescent narcissism as he’s engaged in yet. That’s saying something.
“He’s a chaos candidate,” Bush said when asked to elaborate on a tweet in which he’d called Trump “unhinged.” “And he’ll be a chaos president. He would not be the commander in chief we need to keep our country safe.”
Trump shot back that Bush’s whole candidacy had been a disaster.
Bush shook his head pityingly. “Donald, you’re not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency,” he said.
He twice derided Trump’s comment a while back that he got his foreign policy advice from television shows, saying, “I don’t know if that’s Saturday morning or Sunday morning.” Saturday morning is cartoon time.
Trump crowed about his poll numbers versus Bush’s.
Did he help or hurt himself? I’m not foolish enough to continue guessing and being wrong. He keeps proving that the political laws of gravity don’t apply to him. No, he floats egomaniacally through his own cosmos, where no one is richer, smarter or in better physical shape, and where all other bodies orbit his. He’s solar. Singular.
Bush had his best night — probably too late. Rubio and Cruz had slightly rough ones, their inconsistencies highlighted by their rivals and their positions as senators under fire from Chris Christie, who noted that they’d never been chief executives, and Carly Fiorina, who noted that they were political insiders.
Serious issues were discussed and serious disagreements surfaced: about government surveillance, about military spending, about immigration and how it factors into national security.
The candidates rightly observed that neither Barack Obama nor Hillary Clinton had articulated a strategy or found an answer for reassuring jittery Americans.
But their own attempts to do that also failed, eclipsed by their sparring and preening, by an emphasis on puffed chests and sound bites over nuanced policies and earnest reflection.
In that sense Cruz was the night’s defining figure, his certainty verging on cockiness, his ambitions transparent, his attempts to tap into some warmth a mesmerizing exercise in futility.
We indeed need a warrior right now. We need someone with preternatural poise and confidence.
But we also need someone with a capacity for subtlety, an instinct for true leadership and as much selflessness as can be hoped for in the arena of politics.
Was there anyone with all of those qualities on the stage Tuesday night?
John Feehery, a prominent Republican lobbyist with roots on the South Side of Chicago, understands that he embodies the Republican predicament.
He warns that while the party’s establishment used to be able to call the shots when it came to the selection of presidential nominees,
Raised in a middle-class Irish-Catholic family, Feehery graduated from Marquette in 1986 and rose quickly in the ranks of the party. His most prominent jobs were as communications director for the former House majority leader Tom DeLay and later for House Speaker Dennis Hastert.
Since giving up work as a staffer in 2005, Feehery, 52, has done well. He is president of the public relations arm of QGA Public Affairs, a major Washington lobbying firm. QGA’s clients include AT&T, United States Steel, State Farm and Zurich Financial Services.
Feehery believes that as Democrats have made gains among well-educated and relatively affluent whites, Republicans “have to rely much more on the white working class than on white upper middle-class voters.”
When I asked Feehery what the party needed to do to get back on track, he paused and said, “I’m not sure it’s fixable.”
Despite what liberals might think, Trump’s success in capitalizing on voter animosity to immigration and to political correctness has shocked many conservative Republicans.
Matthew Continetti, the editor in chief of the Washington Free Beacon, warned in a column on Dec. 11, “The Party Divides: A Trump nomination would be the end of the GOP”:
Continetti goes on to ask:
Reihan Salam, executive editor of National Review, told The New Yorker:
For those on the traditional right, one of the most infuriating aspects of Trump’s ascendance is the sense that a man described by Jeb Bush, according to Politico, as “a buffoon” and a “clown,” has wrested control of their party, an institution they have spent five decades turning into the home of principled ideologues.
Rich Lowry, the editor of National Review, looks at Donald Trump and does not see a conservative. Together with Ramesh Ponnuru, a senior editor, Lowry wrote in the October 19 essay “Trump Wrongs the Right” that Trump:
Although “Trump is not a conservative and does not deserve conservatives’ support, Republicans can nonetheless learn from him,” Lowry and Ponnuru write. He
Lowry and Ponnuru make a point similar to Feehery’s:
Trump, the survivor of many financial ups and downs — including four Chapter 11 corporate bankruptcies – has emerged as uniquely positioned to capitalize on the thwarted aspirations and economic vulnerability of much of the electorate.
The extended aftermath of the financial collapse of 2008 has given Trump the opportunity to exploit a political opening: the shift to the right that predictably follows such crises. A recent research paper, “Going to Extremes: Politics After Financial Crises, 1870-2014,” argues that financial crises like the Great Depression of the 1930s and the recent prolonged recession push voters in a conservative direction and allow right-wing parties in Europe to flourish.
The authors, Manuel Funke, Moritz Schularick and Christoph Trebesch, all European economists, report that under such circumstances,
The United States’ two-party system effectively precludes the emergence of right- (or left-) wing third parties, but in some other respects, the post-2008-2009 period here parallels that of European democracies.
These parallels include the sharp rightward movement in the elections of 2010 and 2014, sustained Republican control of the House since 2010, and the 2014 Republican takeover of the Senate.
Rather than a European right-wing party, the current contest for the Republican nomination has produced a unique American phenomenon: Donald J. Trump. Despite near universal opposition from the party establishment, Trump has led the pack every day since July 20, except for three days in early November when Ben Carson briefly tied him in the polls.
If Trump were to falter, many political analysts foresee Ted Cruz, a candidate with views similar to Trump’s who also enjoys the animosity of party elders, filling the vacuum. Trump and Cruz are, in effect, the rebellious American counterparts to the UK Independence Party in England; the National Front in France; and the People’s Party in Denmark.
The dynamic interaction of three current trends — voter anger over immigration, over offshoring and robotization, and over damage wrought by the economic meltdown of 2008 — has been crucial to Trump’s success. Together, these developments have blown a hole in American politics. Trump, wielding ferocious rhetoric, has plowed through.
Take immigration: For many voters, the discomfiting point made 12 years ago in the Texas Observer by Michael Lind, policy director of the economic growth program at the New America foundation, remains true today. The left, Lind said,
Though his findings are contested by other economists, George J. Borjas, a professor of economics at Harvard, argues that
Or take the hollowing out: “In 1979, the four middle-skill occupations (sales; office and administrative workers; production workers; and operatives) accounted for 60 percent of employment,” according to David Autor, an economist at M.I.T. By 2012, “it was 46 percent.”
Or take the aftereffects of the financial collapse: “The cost of the crisis, assuming output eventually returns to its precrisis trend path, is an output loss of $6 trillion to $14 trillion. This amounts to $50,000 to $120,000 for every U.S. household,” analysts at the Dallas Federal Reserve calculated:
The “stark legacy of the recession and the lackluster labor market” are apparent in “reduced opportunity and deterioration,” according to the Dallas Federal Reserve. The number of men and women “not in the labor force” continues to grow, from 92.5 million in November 2014 to 94.4 million last month.
In other words, the stage has been set for Trump.
If, as Feehery argues, the central vulnerability of the Republican establishment and its congressional wing is excessive deference to donors and party elites, it is conceivable that Trump’s bid will force less obeisance to this stratum.
Given the intensity of this intraparty conflict, leaders of the Republican establishment are wise to have begun their contingency planning for a deadlocked convention in Cleveland in July – or, for that matter, for a Trump third-party bid.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• Republicans talk tough.
Jeb Bush and other Republican presidential candidates attacked Donald J. Trump on Tuesday night, united against Mr. Trump’s plan to bar Muslims from entering the U.S. and arguing over who would be toughest in protecting Americans from terrorist threats.
Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio, first-term senators who are similar in many ways, had their most pointed face-to-face confrontation.
We’ve fact-checked the debate statements and compiled video highlights.
So, who won? There’s no agreement on a clear victor.
• Watching the Fed.
The Federal Reserve’s policy-making committee is expected to announce today that it will raise its benchmark interest rate for the first time in nearly a decade, as the U.S. economy has achieved steady growth and is close to full employment.
The rate is expected to be raised a quarter of a percentage point. The Fed has held the rate near zero for seven years as the pillar of its economic stimulus campaign.
Here’s an unconventional look at what happens when the Fed raises rates.
• Congress reaches a deal.
Republican and Democratic negotiators in the House agreed to a deal late Tuesday night on a $1.1 trillion spending bill to fund the U.S. government through 2016, and on a huge package of tax breaks.
The government also announced that it was extending through Thursday an enrollment period for full-year health insurance, beginning on Jan. 1, under the Affordable Care Act.
• U.S. pushes on Syria and Iraq.
Defense Secretary Ashton B. Carter is in Baghdad today to confer with Iraq’s leaders on accelerating the U.S.-led campaign against the Islamic State.
And Secretary of State John Kerry has been trying to find common ground with Russia’s president so that peace talks on Syria can begin in early 2016.
• Threats against public schools.
The two largest school systems in the U.S. confronted threats of a terrorist attack on Tuesday. New York City dismissed it as a hoax, but Los Angeles immediately shut down all public schools, upending the lives of parents, students and teachers.
The threats, emailed to school officials on both coasts, were largely identical and had been routed through a server in Frankfurt, apparently by the same person.
• Baltimore awaits Freddie Gray verdict.
Jurors in the trial of Officer William G. Porter, charged with manslaughter in the April death of Freddie Gray, announced on Tuesday that they were deadlocked. They will resume deliberations this morning.
Police officers are bracing for possible protests, and jails are preparing extra space in case of numerous arrests.
• Executions down in U.S.
This year saw the fewest executions in nearly 25 years, and new death sentences imposed by courts fell to levels not seen since the early 1970s, according to a report released today.
• Two thumbs up.
Our chief film critic writes today that “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” opening on Friday, brings “new kinetic wows along with some of the niceties that went missing as the series grew into a phenomenon.”
BUSINESS
• President Xi Jinping of China, whose government has tightened control of the Internet in recent years, called today for other nations to cooperate in regulating it.
• Hedge funds took a hit in 2015. Even billionaire managers with sterling records have been unable to avoid heavy losses.
• General Electric, the largest U.S. industrial group, presents this afternoon its outlook for next year. G.E. is shifting away from finance and back to its industrial roots.
• Wall Street stocks  are gaining. European markets were positive, and Asian indexes finished broadly higher.
NOTEWORTHY
• Stormy weather …
A storm deposited 24 inches of snow on Colorado on Tuesday, after leaving about a foot of snow in the Salt Lake City area.
The storm moves to the Plains today.
• … but not everywhere.
Warm temperatures in the Northeast are weighing significantly on sales of boots, coats and other cold-weather items, and steep discounts are forecast.
• Another Higgs boson?
Two separate teams of physicists say they have seen traces of what could be a new fundamental particle of nature.
• Sports roundup.
Abby Wambach, whose 184 goals are the most in international soccer, plays her final game with the U.S. team tonight.
Four Cuban major leaguers were swarmed by fans in Havana at the start of a three-day good-will tour of the nation. The landmark trip was years in the making.
• Ode to joy.
Beethoven was born on this day in 1770, or a day close to it. A Times critic ranked him as the second-greatest classical music composer in history, after Bach.
• Silly laws.
Over the centuries, Britain has accumulated many laws that now seem irrelevant. A small team of officials is tasked with pruning them.
• Healthier than dessert.
A restaurant in smog-plagued China charged its customers a “clean air fee.”
BACK STORY
Long before Barack Obama was a player on the national stage, many pundits thought Colin L. Powell would be the first black American president.
It was 15 years ago today that Mr. Powell, the son of immigrants and a native of Harlem, was nominated as U.S. secretary of state, after a long and high-profile military career.
He was a Republican, a moderate, a charismatic media figure and a natural commander.
But Mr. Powell’s support for the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq while secretary of state soured some of the public on him. And a distaste for politics turned him against running for elected office.
He ended up endorsing President Obama for both of his White House races.
Mr. Powell, 78, who left the Bush cabinet in 2005, still jumps into political issues. Notably, he came out in favor of the Iran nuclear agreement this year.
In recent speeches, he has criticized the Republican Party in general and Donald J. Trump in particular, as well as the paralysis of Congress and shifting sentiments against immigrants.
Asked at a forum in September whether he was still a Republican, he answered, yes, “because it annoys them.”
Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
LONDON — Britain’s highest court unanimously rejected on Wednesday an attempt by Donald J. Trump, the real estate developer and Republican presidential candidate, to block the construction of a wind farm near his luxury golf resort in northeast Scotland.
The ruling is the latest impediment for the resort, known as Trump International Golf Links, which opened in 2012 near Balmedie, a few miles north of Aberdeen.
Mr. Trump has vowed to stop further development on the project if the offshore wind farm — 11 turbines, which would be visible from the golf resort 2.2 miles away — goes forward.
In a 27-page ruling, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom rejected an argument by Mr. Trump’s lawyers that the wind farm had been improperly approved by Scottish officials in March 2013 because it did not comply with a 1989 law and because there was a problem with the planning application.
Fergus Ewing, the Scottish energy minister, wrote on Twitter that the government was “pleased that the Supreme Court has unanimously found in our favor.”
In a statement, George A. Sorial, the executive vice president and counsel for The Trump Organization, Mr. Trump’s development company in New York, denounced the ruling as “extremely unfortunate for the residents of Aberdeen and anyone who cares about Scotland’s economic future.”
Mr. Sorial said the wind farm, known as the European Offshore Wind Deployment Center, would “completely destroy the bucolic Aberdeen Bay and cast a terrible shadow upon the future of tourism for the area.”
He added, “History will judge those involved unfavorably, and the outcome demonstrates the foolish, small-minded and parochial mentality which dominates the current Scottish government’s dangerous experiment with wind energy.”
Mr. Sorial warned that the wind farm might never be built because of insufficient financing for renewable-energy projects, in large part because of plunging oil prices.
“We will evaluate the court’s decision and continue to fight this proposal on every possible front,” he said.
Local opposition to the resort inspired a 2011 documentary film, “You’ve Been Trumped,” which Mr. Trump’s lawyers tried unsuccessfully to stop the BBC from broadcasting in 2012.
Scottish officials approved the resort in 2008 after determining that the economic benefits outweighed environmental concerns. But the subsequent approval of the wind farm drew outrage from Mr. Trump, who clashed on the subject with Alex Salmond, who was Scotland’s first minister until last year.
Mr. Trump told a parliamentary committee that the wind turbines were “one of the most serious problems Scotland will have or has had.”
Last year, Mr. Trump bought Turnberry, a prestigious golf course in southwest Scotland, an action that suggested that he might not invest much more money into the resort near Aberdeen.
Mr. Trump’s mother was born in Scotland and moved to the United States in the 1930s. She died in 2000.
New Day for America, a “super PAC” supporting Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, is aggressively attacking Donald J. Trump, now with a mocking commercial titled “Hippo-Crit” that suggests Mr. Trump belongs in the White House about as much as he belongs in a zoo.
Mr. Trump and a hippopotamus, their mouths agape, alternate or share the screen, as a visual device resembles the bars of a cage. Both are seemingly “voiced” by the snorts and grunts of an indeterminate off-screen mammal. Unflattering images of Mr. Trump flip or spin away before surveillance-style images show Trump-brand neckties made in China and his “palatial D.C. hotel” being built by “illegal immigrants.” Available to save the day in the end is Mr. Kasich, shown in a contemplative pose beside an American flag and a large, Oval Office-like window.
Other attacks on aspects of Mr. Trump’s background have whiffed. But this ad pungently goes after Mr. Trump on two of the red-meat issues that have made him so popular with rank-and-file Republicans: illegal immigration and the outsourcing of American jobs.
Mr. Trump’s name-brand ties are indeed made in China, a decision he defended on grounds that China “has manipulated their currency to such a point that it’s impossible for our companies to compete.” The Washington Post found several workers at Mr. Trump’s Washington hotel project who had entered the country illegally. His campaign says the project is following all applicable laws.
On New Hampshire television stations as part of a $2.5 million ad campaign against Mr. Trump.
Attacking Mr. Trump on immigration and jobs — issues on which he has based much of his campaign — and with the sort of ridicule that Mr. Trump has used on others, could gain Mr. Kasich some much-needed attention.
Shortly before Tuesday night’s Republican debate, Showtime announced it would be starting a new political documentary series in January called “The Circus.” The creation of the Republican media consultant Mark McKinnon and the Bloomberg political journalists Mark Halperin and John Heilemann, the show will chronicle the presidential campaign as it unfolds behind the scenes. It is the latest event horizon in the history of campaigns being covered as reality-show entertainment pieces — the next logical look into the fun-house mirror of our meta-driven political culture.
David Nevins, president of Showtime, envisions “The Circus” as a campaign analogue to the network’s “A Season With” series, which goes behind the scenes with sports teams as they progress through their seasons. (The current edition follows the Notre Dame football team.) The whole idea is almost too perfectly teed up for a complaint about the process-oriented way in which campaigns are covered now, the “horse race” that the various operatives, journalists, miscellaneous insiders and coat-holders obsess over.
It’s not exactly a new grievance: that coverage of campaigns focuses less and less on what candidates actually say and believe than on how they’re doing. And yet Donald Trump’s hammerlock on the Republican nomination race for six solid months has pushed this phenomenon into genuinely new territory, into vistas of meta-ness that are breathtaking even to a wizened observer of these matters. Trump’s endurance is a testimonial to a campaign — and a candidate — that is defined almost entirely by the process it is dominating. Trump wins news cycles, not arguments. He wields the power of his horse-race prowess, not any viable ideas (ideas?). He kills at the box office. He drives the narrative. What else is there? Trump’s campaign is all about — the about.
The apotheosis of this (non)idea in Tuesday night’s debate occurred when Jeb Bush accused the blustery billionaire of being a less-than-serious candidate and trying to “insult his way to the White House.” Trump replied, “I know you’re trying to build up your energy, Jeb,” echoing his previous dismissal of Bush as having “low energy.” “But it’s not working very well. … I’m at 42, and you’re at three.”
Burn. This is the circular logic that Trump likes to twirl like a lasso whenever challenged by another candidate: America never wins anymore, but Trump always wins. Therefore he must be right, and is right (and winning) again. So shut up, little man!
Trump touting his poll numbers has become such a familiar boast/weapon that it’s easy to forget what a weirdly novel innovation in campaign rhetoric it is. Did any previous presidential candidate ever bring up his poll numbers at a debate? I can’t recall any. Polls were best left to the pundits and operatives. They were process matters. Candidates debated, if not always about issues, certainly about the qualities that made them fit for the job. It is as if Trump has been aiming for these shallow polling snapshots to become self-fulfilling — and who’s to say it’s not working?
“Doesn’t matter, doesn’t matter,” Bush muttered in response to Trump. That was another retro assumption, or wish, from Bush: Polls don’t matter, or if they do, they’re to be dismissed. (“The only poll that matters,” goes the cliché, “is on Election Day.”) Jeb’s brother and dad never talked about polls in public, certainly not from a debate stage. That was dirty operative stuff.
In a sense, we have now moved beyond a mere obsession with process and into a stage of advanced metaness. If the only thing that matters in America is winning, then shouldn’t the only question that matters — in an election, in a debate — be simply: “Who is winning?” That would seem to be Trump’s belief, and it is perfectly suited to the immediate-gratification jones of a twitchy electorate. There is no reason to wait all the way until Election Day when you can have a reality-TV show about that election every week, starring an actual reality-TV star.
I won’t pretend to be one of those solemn policy sleepy-eyes and bemoan the focus on the candy and the theater. I’m as captivated by reality TV as the next zombie. But it is worth taking some inventory of how far into the looking glass our heads are at this point.
Not long after the Bush-Trump contretemps, Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz engaged in a back and forth of their own about domestic surveillance and personal privacy. It was an impressive volley about the nuances of their respective records, and it was a good moment for both, I thought — until Chris Christie felt the need to jump in and keep it real on behalf of any bored Americans out there. “I want to talk to the audience at home for a second,” Christie said — finally, someone looking after us! “If your eyes are glazed over like mine,” he went on, “this is what it’s like to be on the floor of the United States Senate.”
At which point, I went on Twitter for updates on another hot matter being debated: Who was that who kept coughing in the background?
MOSCOW — With his customary swagger and salty language, President Vladimir V. Putin held forth on a sweeping array of topics in his traditional year-end news conference on Thursday, even throwing in a glowing assessment of Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Putin drew applause from the crowd of journalists when he lashed out at Turkey for having shot down a Russian bomber, daring the Turks to try it again with Russia’s advanced air defense system in place.
Using a crude expression to describe the Turks as ingratiating themselves with Washington, he said perhaps they “wanted to lick the Americans in a certain place.”
The Russian leader was alternately pugnacious and conciliatory during the news conference, which was more than three hours long. In years past, he has had sharp words for Washington, but this time he praised the efforts of Secretary of State John Kerry to find a political solution to the war in Syria.
Mr. Putin also veered close to an admission that Russian soldiers had fought in the war in eastern Ukraine, saying, “We never said there were no people there solving certain questions, including in the military sphere,” but he denied that they were on active duty with the regular army.
“Get a sense of that distinction,” he said.
He even gave a few hints of his closely guarded family life, talking proudly of his two adult daughters, who he said were living in Russia and “taking the first steps of their careers.”
Mr. Putin likes to throw in a few surprises on these occasions, as he did two years ago by announcing the release of an imprisoned oil tycoon, Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky. This year, he rose to the defense of Sepp Blatter, the embattled president of soccer’s world governing body, FIFA, who is under criminal investigation for corruption, saying Mr. Blatter should be awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
And he even inserted himself into the Republican presidential primary contest in the United States, speaking highly of Mr. Trump in remarks after the news conference ended.
“There is no doubt that he is a very bright and talented man,” the Russian leader said. “It is not our business to assess his merits; that is up to the U.S. voters. But he is an absolute leader of the presidential race.” In Russian, the word for “bright” has several meanings, including outstanding, brilliant and even gaudy.
Beneath the pyrotechnics, Mr. Putin seemed most concerned with driving home the point to his domestic audience that Russia’s battered economy had bottomed out, an indication that Russia’s recession had his full attention.
Peppered with dozens of questions, Mr. Putin lingered, as he did at last year’s session, on those that allowed him to reassure Russians that their living standards were not imperiled.
He went out of his way to say that Russia’s economy had hit bottom this year, and that it was now bouncing back — though independent economists and even Russia’s central bank, in a report issued this month, have contested that view.
At times, Mr. Putin sugarcoated grim economic news Russians were bound to discover in any case. While the government might soon lift the retirement age to save money, that is cause for celebration, he said, because Russians are now living longer — to an average age of 71.
Mr. Putin backpedaled on his prediction a year ago that Russia would pull out of its current slump within two years, and blamed the tumble in oil prices. “After this fall in prices in energy resources, all the indicators slipped,” he said.
Despite the recession, Mr. Putin’s popularity remains extraordinarily high, with support above 80 percent in some polls. While the economy is biting at home, even as Mr. Putin pursues a swaggering foreign policy, the hardship has not yet translated into widespread political discontent.
Surveys and the answers to questions posed to focus groups show that the pillars of Mr. Putin’s popularity shifted in early 2014, just before the current downturn. Russians now say they admire Mr. Putin more for a role as a “protector” from external threats than for the role of “provider,” a study by an influential Russian sociologist, Mikhail E. Dmitriyev, concluded this year.
Over the years, these events have provided a chronicle of Mr. Putin’s foreign policy thinking as it grew progressively anti-interventionist.
In 2008, he complained bitterly about the United States’ backing independence for Kosovo, and railed about Washington’s propensity to intervene in countries’ internal affairs where and when it sees fit. “We are told all the time, ‘Kosovo is a special case,’ ” Mr. Putin said. “It is all lies. There is no special case, and everybody understands it perfectly well.”
He propounded the same anti-interventionist theme in later years in the case of Libya, where he was embittered at having been misled into supporting a “humanitarian” intervention that ended up in what he saw as a disastrous exercise in regime change.
“No matter how they explained their position, the state is falling apart,” he said in 2012. “Interethnic, interclan and intertribal conflicts continue.” He added, “And you want us to constantly repeat these mistakes in other countries?”
He argued against intervention by outside powers in Syria as well, adding that Russia was “not concerned with the fate” of President Bashar al-Assad’s government.
“Of course, changes are being demanded, but it’s something else that concerns — what will happen next?”
Mr. Putin brushed aside a question about the cost to Russia’s struggling economy of the bombing campaign in Syria. It would be paid for, he said, out of the Defense Ministry’s training budget.
“It’s hard to imagine a better training drill,” he said of the bombing in Syria.
Since Turkey shot down a Russian warplane that it said had violated its airspace, Mr. Putin has engaged in a war of words with the Turkish president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and ordered a number of retaliatory measures. On Thursday, he made clear that Russia has made Syria a no-fly zone for Turkish airplanes.
“Turkey used to violate Syrian airspace all the time,” Mr. Putin said. “Let them try and fly there now,” he said, noting that Russia’s most advanced air defense system, the S-400, can hit any target in Syria.
Russia under Mr. Putin has deployed its military in several countries, and at one point on Thursday the president suffered a slip of the tongue in answering a question about Georgia, where Russia fought a war in 2008 and later recognized two separatist regions.
“Concerning the territorial integrity of Ukraine, ah, excuse me, of Georgia. ... ” he said, going on to say that the breakup of Georgia was the fault of that country’s former leaders, not of Russia.
Speaking about his daughters, he said that they “have never lived in the limelight” but that they speak three European languages that they use “in their daily work.” He did not directly deny reports published this year that the pair held jobs at Russian universities.
COMING late in Handel’s “Messiah,” the glittering instrumental solo in “The Trumpet Shall Sound” is one of the most recognizable trumpet parts in music. This time of year, its rousing opening fanfare and serenely gleaming lyrical passages can be heard in concert halls and churches all over the country, part of a bass aria that becomes one of this beloved oratorio’s emotional highlights, charged with hope, mystery and awe.
Awe is also the overriding emotion that musicians bring to the part — especially when they perform it on the Baroque trumpet. John Thiessen, one of the most consistently outstanding performers on period trumpets, who is currently playing the solo in Trinity Wall Street’s “Messiah” performances, said in an interview that while the writing is not especially virtuosic, the part is extensive and exposed: “You have to be ready and you have to be prepared physically.”
These days, the solo is most commonly played on a modern piccolo trumpet, a small, tightly coiled instrument — with two feet of tubing to the Baroque trumpet’s seven — that produces an incisive, citrusy-bright sound. The more sweetly toned Baroque version, by contrast, is long and straight — and, most important, devoid of the valves that on modern instruments enable players to hit and evenly tune all the notes of a scale.
The resulting instability of intonation was so much of an issue, even in Handel’s time, that a music historian of that era, Charles Burney, complained that certain notes on the trumpet were “too much used for even vulgar ears to bear patiently.”
Like most of today’s period trumpeters, Mr. Thiessen plays on modern copies of Baroque instruments to which holes have been added to improve intonation. But in a brass player’s equivalent of scaling Everest without oxygen, some trumpeters take pride in playing — and meticulously tuning — Handel’s solo on so-called natural trumpets without holes. When the British trumpeter Crispian Steele-Perkins recorded it that way in the late 1980s, he asked Mr. Thiessen, who was then studying with him, to accompany him to the recording studio as a witness.
In a phone interview, Mr. Steele-Perkins said that one of the reasons performers struggle with the solo on period instruments is that they tend to take a gladiatorial louder-is-better approach that ill suits the music of the time. “The main reason for disasters in performance nowadays is that young players do not understand that in the 17th and 18th centuries, the art of trumpet playing was not how loud you could play but how quietly,” he said. “There are many written commentaries from the time, which express amazement that a militaristic instrument can be sounded with such delicacy.”
In “The Trumpet Shall Sound,” Mr. Thiessen said, the more transparent sound of a Baroque instrument allows the musician to move “more easily from being a soloist to an ensemble player as the situation changes.” His own interpretations of the part stand out for the singing smoothness that he brings to the high scales that wind in and out of the vocal part.
But it is the opening fanfare, a dotted rising arpeggio, that is most identified with the aria’s promise of resurrection. Pulling out a copy of the manuscript score, Mr. Thiessen pointed to a correction Handel made to the number’s tempo. Crossing out “Andante” (literally, in Italian, “walking”) — in the phrase “Andante ma non allegro,” the composer changed the marking to “Pomposo ma non allegro,” indicating a statelier but energetic gait.
Mr. Steele-Perkins discovered just how specific the ceremonial connotations of that trumpet opening would have been to contemporary ears when he bought a pair of trumpets that had been in the possession of the assize court in the English town of Guildford. Inside the case was a piece of music manuscript paper containing the flourish to be played at the arrival of the judge. It turned out to be an exact match of the opening three bars of Handel’s aria.
“This would have been immediately recognized by English and Irish audiences at the time,” Mr. Steele-Perkins said. “The arrival of the judge here becomes the Day of Judgment — an important testament to Handel’s faith and a climactic moment in the oratorio.”
The text of the aria is taken from Paul’s First Epistle to the Corinthians: “The trumpet shall sound and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.” In typical fashion, Handel uses word painting to reinforce the message, sending the vocal part through elaborate undulating runs on the word “changed.”
“The message in the text is about hope,” Mr. Thiessen said. After the oratorio’s first part, devoted to the prophecy of redemption, and the second, dealing with suffering, sacrifice and folly, the third part is about victory over death and war.
“In ‘The Trumpet Shall Sound,’ I am the angel,” Mr. Thiessen said, adding that in Handel’s music, the trumpet often represents a different plane of existence from the rest of the orchestra: the regal, the divine or the military. “Every time Handel uses the trumpet, it’s on the side of what’s right,” he said. “If the king is a good king, it’s representing the king. But in the case of ‘Saul,’ the trumpet is never played for Saul, the king — it’s played for David, who’s 8 years old.”
Bach, by contrast, sometimes “sets up the trumpet to fail,” Mr. Thiessen said. “In the arias where he talks about the difficulties and troubles of life, he’ll give the trumpet something really difficult to play, to set him up to fail. It has to sound hard.”
For Baroque trumpeters, the challenge in Handel’s “Messiah” is to radiate confidence even while negotiating the difficulties of the part. As for Burney’s complaint about tuning, Mr. Thiessen points out that the historian had worked as a violist in Handel’s orchestra and that it was very likely that he sat right in front of Valentine Snow, the trumpeter who inspired many of Handel’s solos. Easy on the ears it would not have been.
These days, he said, seasoned period-instrument conductors like Nicholas McGegan will instruct the string players to tweak their own intonation to match that of the trumpet in an aria such as Handel’s. But given that the trumpet represents a power outside of the orchestra community, it may be appropriate to emphasize its difference with its own tuning system, too. After all, as Mr. Thiessen said, “It’s music from a different world.”
Buoyed by an aggressive performance in Tuesday’s Republican debate, Jeb Bush is intensifying his strategy of attacking Donald J. Trump’s fitness for the presidency, which his aides believe is setting him apart from the sprawling field just as voters begin to make up their minds in early voting states.
This plan has significant risks given how low Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, has fallen in polls and the fact that several other rivals, especially Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, are running ahead of him in early states. Some analysts believe he would be better served trying to dispatch them.
But after much discussion, the Bush team has decided, at least for now, that the most effective way to convince voters of Mr. Bush’s seriousness is to highlight his barrage against Mr. Trump, a billionaire real estate magnate, whom he repeatedly assailed during the debate in Las Vegas.
More viscerally, they believe it will show a quality not always associated with the somewhat patrician Bush family: guts.
“Going after Trump is tactically brilliant for Jeb,” said Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist and CNN commentator who supports Mr. Bush. “There are others on that stage who don’t agree with what Trump says or how he says it, but don’t have the guts to lay a glove on the guy for fear of antagonizing his supporters and incurring his wrath. Jeb has the lane all to himself.”
On Thursday, the “super PAC” supporting Mr. Bush released a new ad, “Tough Enough,” that opens with the words, “One candidate tough enough to take on the bully,” before cutting to an exchange between Mr. Bush and Mr. Trump from the debate.
Under this strategy, Mr. Bush plans to make New Hampshire, the first primary state, his second home as the holidays approach, and to spend more than half his time there in the seven weeks before the Feb. 9 primary. He has little hope of prevailing in the more conservative Iowa caucuses on Feb. 1, and his aides believe he must place in the top three in New Hampshire to convince his donors and supporters that his campaign is still viable. That means finishing ahead of, or at least tied with, Mr. Christie, Mr. Rubio and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio.
Mr. Bush, who is on a fund-raising swing out West, will head to New Hampshire on Saturday for a breakneck day of five town-hall-style events, starting in the morning in Contoocook and ending in Nashua after nightfall.
His team recently began “the New Hampshire Project,” an effort to raise $1 million by the end of the year for television ads in the state. And staff members for the super PAC supporting him, Right to Rise, have already knocked on more than 12,000 doors there, using tablets to update voters’ information.
Mr. Bush’s campaign was cheered when Mr. Trump, late in the debate, seemed to become upset at Mr. Bush and a moderator under the heat of questioning. And the fact that other candidates still seem reluctant to tussle with Mr. Trump has allowed Mr. Bush to stand out as “the one that’s standing up for the party and the country,” his campaign’s communications director, Tim Miller, said on a private conference call with donors after the debate. (Mr. Bush’s quip, “You’re not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency,” was the most shared moment on Facebook Tuesday night.)
There appears to be an opening in New Hampshire among Republicans who are uncomfortable with Mr. Trump. Although a recent CNN/WMUR poll showed Mr. Trump running first among likely Republican primary voters there, some 26 percent said they would not support him.
But Mr. Bush faces serious challenges. He has yet to show he can regain the stature he had in the spring, when he was considered an establishment favorite for the nomination.
Mr. Christie has gained traction in New Hampshire — using his personal, tough-talking style to land the endorsement of The New Hampshire Union Leader, an influential newspaper — and Mr. Rubio is also besting Mr. Bush in surveys. In the CNN/WMUR poll, Mr. Trump led with 32 percent and Mr. Rubio was second with 14 percent, while Mr. Christie had 9 percent and Mr. Bush 8.
More urgently, Mr. Bush needs money. He disappeared from the campaign trail after the debate to hold private fund-raising events. Donors and bundlers say privately that their fund-raising pitch became more difficult as Mr. Bush steadily declined in the polls and leveled off in the single digits.
This fall, they worried about being able to fill rooms and began sending out invitations to “friendraisers,” fund-raisers where the campaign waived the donation required to attend. One solicitation in October, in Greenwich, Conn., read, “I want you to come as my guest, no charge,” before concluding, “The important thing is that you come!”
But Bush supporters and donors are a loyal group. Many of them have known the candidate since his days as governor and remain convinced that he is the most qualified candidate to be president — and that Republican primary voters, as they get to know him better, will eventually arrive at the same conclusion.
On Friday, one of Mr. Bush’s brothers, former President George W. Bush, is set to host a conference call with the campaign’s national finance team.
There have been some high spots in fund-raising, according to the campaign: a half-million-dollar haul in Michigan in October; $350,000 in Dallas and a quarter-million in New York in November; and $325,000 in Miami in early December, on the eve of a Bush donor retreat there.
Some donors are worried about the campaign’s strategy, however. They have raised concerns about the value of a 15-minute documentary about Mr. Bush that the super PAC backing him produced, and about whether that group is providing the support Mr. Bush’s floundering White House bid needs. There is also a consensus, even among his supporters, that he is a far weaker candidate than expected.
Even after his debate performance, some supporters noted that while he had held his own with Mr. Trump, he had stumbled in his opening and closing statements — moments that should have been easy, uninterrupted chances to make his pitch.
“He’s really positioning himself as the alternative to everybody in the race, but at this point, you have to be the alternative to the guys at the top,” said Jay Zeidman, a Bush donor based in Houston. “I don’t think he’s trying to take on Trump to prove anything other than he’s the most serious guy, the most capable.”
Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting Jeb Bush’s campaign, moved quickly to capitalize on Mr. Bush’s well-received exchange with Donald J. Trump in Tuesday’s debate with this ad, titled “Tough Enough.”
White text on a black background proclaims, “One candidate tough enough to take on the bully ... ” before Mr. Bush is shown delivering his smackdown: “Donald, you’re not going to be able to insult your way to the presidency.” The screen freezes on Mr. Trump closing his eyes and smiling, or smirking, as if acknowledging the joke is on him, while the crowd cheers. As Mr. Bush is shown addressing rapt crowds with forceful gestures, a male narrator promises Mr. Bush “will destroy ISIS,” represented by video of an airstrike on an Islamic State target. An American flag and white picket fence stand in for the homeland, and Mr. Bush, addressing a crowd of Citadel cadets, is meant to embody security.
Twofold: Paint Mr. Trump as a bully and nothing more, leaving the impression that he is ill-equpped to defeat terrorists. And show Mr. Bush as a tough campaigner who would be an even tougher president.
The ad says Mr. Bush would “rebuild” the United States military, echoing his contention that the Obama administration allowed the defense budget to shrink. It does not say that the cuts were made through bipartisan sequestration. The latest budget deal increased defense spending. Mr. Bush wants to increase troop strength, add submarines and replace any aircraft older than their pilots; he has not said how he will pay for that.
On broadcast stations in Iowa and New Hampshire and nationally on Fox News as part of an advertising buy costing more than $3 million.
Right to Rise’s last ad, “Desk,” pulled punches by also criticizing Senator Marco Rubio and Senator Ted Cruz. This one aims squarely at Mr. Trump. But to some eyes, equating Mr. Trump with a threat as serious as ISIS could make Mr. Bush look weaker, not stronger.
YORKTOWN, N.Y. — Donald J. Trump, who is the leading Republican contender for president, is known for splashing his name across everything: casinos, office buildings, golf courses, apartment towers and hotels.
For the most part, even his detractors have grudgingly accepted this as one of the brash real estate developer’s peccadilloes. But after making inflammatory comments about women, Mexican immigrants and, most recently, Muslims, some critics are demanding that his name be removed from one very public place: a state park.
The park is in Westchester and Putnam Counties in New York, straddling the Taconic State Parkway. Called (no surprise) Donald J. Trump State Park, the property was donated to the state in 2006 after Mr. Trump’s plan to develop a golf course there was derailed by environmental and permitting roadblocks.
Since then, the state Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation has made virtually no investment in the 435-acre park, which has no dedicated maintenance staff and, unlike most Trump properties, exudes a feeling of decay and abandonment. Despite a sign stating that the park is open from dawn to dusk, a kiosk at the entrance was empty on a recent visit — no trail map and none of the usual warnings about ticks and Lyme disease.
Nonetheless, the large green and white signs on the parkway for the Trump park have rankled residents who do not care for his politics. A petition with more than 550 signatures on change.org is called “Rename Donald J. Trump State Park to ... anything else.”
The creator of the petition, Andrew Cheung of Brooklyn, wrote: “Donald Trump’s behavior and public statements have been a source of embarrassment for this great nation. He has shown himself to be a bigot, and it is embarrassing that the state of New York has a park named after him, which countless citizens must drive by daily.”
On Monday, the movement to strip Mr. Trump’s identity from the park gained momentum when State Senator Daniel L. Squadron, a Democrat from New York City, formally called on Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to change the name.
“As you know,” Mr. Squadron wrote in a letter to the governor, “Mr. Trump’s rhetoric in his Presidential campaign has become increasingly hostile to the core values of our state and nation. His discriminatory proposals are unbefitting of a campaign for our country’s highest office. Mr. Trump has shown that he is unworthy of having a New York State Park named in his honor.”
Mr. Squadron added that he planned to introduce legislation to replace the current name with a “more appropriate one.” He urged the state to begin a renaming process that involves the public and “does not compromise our state’s long history and core value of respect for diversity.”
Another state lawmaker, Assemblyman Charles D. Lavine, a Democrat from Long Island, also joined Mr. Squadron this week in saying he would push the Legislature to drop Mr. Trump’s name.
United States Representative Sean Patrick Maloney, a Democrat whose district includes much of Trump Park, suggested renaming the park for Pete Seeger, the famous folk singer and environmental activist, who died last year.
On Dec. 7, after the massacre in San Bernardino, Calif.,  Mr. Trump outraged many in the United States and abroad when he called for a “total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States,” citing the threat of terrorism from the Islamic State. When he announced his decision to enter the presidential race, he said that Mexico was “sending” its least valued citizens to the United States, including “rapists” and those involved in drugs and crime.
A spokeswoman for the Trump campaign, Hope Hicks, noting that Mr. Trump leads the Republican field of candidates who are seeking the party’s presidential nomination, said “he is a proud resident of New York who employs thousands of people.”
“The state cannot remove his name,” she said. When Mr. Trump gave the land to the state parks agency, there was an agreement that the park would bear his name. 
It is not the first time that the Donald J. Trump State Park has become a flash point, however. In 2010, the park was on a list of 58 state parks and historic sites that were set for closing because of budget cuts.
At the time, Mr. Trump bristled at the prospect, saying, “If they’re going to close it, I’ll take the land back.” Officials in Albany said they would not give the park back. Ultimately, all the parks and historic sites were kept open anyway.
On Wednesday, the state parks office declined to respond to Mr. Squadron’s request for a name change. Officials in the Cuomo administration who did not want to be identified speaking about what they considered a sensitive topic said removing someone’s name from a state property because of political considerations — whether a park, a bridge or a highway — was a slippery slope.
While declining to give a public statement, the governor’s office referred a reporter to remarks Mr. Cuomo made on Monday about Mr. Trump on CNN.  
In the CNN interview, Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, said that Mr. Trump was “fanning the flames of hate” with his comments about barring Muslims from entering the country. “One billion Muslims were just alienated with one sentence,” he added.
Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, said that the state park should never have been named for Mr. Trump. “Public parks should be named with care,” he said. “We should not go the route of naming public infrastructure or parks after individuals who have yet to contribute to the public sector.”
Seeking a name change for an institution because of the views of the person it is named after is not unusual. Last month at Princeton University, some students demanded that the university change the name of the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs because of Wilson’s racist views.
Wilson served as Princeton’s 13th president, from 1902 to 1910, before becoming president of the United States. Members of Princeton’s Black Justice League are now calling attention to his racist legacy, including his observation that “segregation is not humiliating, but a benefit.”
Mr. Trump’s comments have become a lightning rod as well. On the change.org petition, many signers — including people in Westchester County and New York City, but some from as far away as Idaho and Alabama — have cited his remarks during the presidential campaign.
“I grew up in Yorktown and my parents still live there,” Rebecca Capua of Brooklyn, who signed the petition, wrote on change.org. “It was bad enough having this park named after him before he ran for president. Why don’t we name it after Mussolini or someone less terrible?”
DES MOINES — Donald J. Trump has dominated much of this political season, excited an often-ignored part of the electorate, filled huge arenas with followers and upended the rules of how modern campaigns are run.
But now he faces an urgent question: Can he actually win crucial early contest states?
Translating a personality-driven campaign to the voting booth is no easy feat, especially for a candidate who has never run before.
But here in the state with the first nominating contest, about six weeks away, Mr. Trump has fallen behind in the nuts and bolts of organizing. A loss in Iowa for Mr. Trump, where he has devoted the most resources of his campaign, could imperil his leads in the next two nominating states, New Hampshire and South Carolina, where his get-out-the-vote organizations are even less robust.
A successful ground game is crucial in Iowa because of the state’s complicated method of caucus voting, but the Trump campaign has lagged in reaching some of its own benchmarks.
Mr. Trump’s Iowa director predicted that he would recruit a leader for each of the state’s 1,681 Republican precincts by Thanksgiving. Instead, the first major training session for precinct leaders, heavily promoted in emails and conference calls, drew only about 80 people to West Des Moines last weekend, with about 50 participating online.
Some of Mr. Trump’s Republican rivals have spent months calling and knocking on doors to identify potential supporters to draw them out to caucuses, but Mr. Trump does not appear to have invested in this crucial “voter ID” strategy until recently.
The Trump campaign hopes to attract a surge of independents and disaffected Democrats on caucus night, but the latest data from the Iowa secretary of state show no significant growth in Republican registrations.
Interviews in Iowa with Mr. Trump’s campaign workers, his volunteers and dozens of attendees at his rallies over two months, as well as observations of voter outreach, conference calls and confidential training sessions, indicate that Mr. Trump’s support in the Feb. 1 Iowa caucuses may fall short of his poll numbers in the state. He is now trading the lead position with Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.
Mr. Trump’s greatest organizing asset is a database of thousands of email addresses of Iowans who have attended packed rallies. Yet it appears that organizers have only recently begun tapping that database, which a Democratic strategist in Iowa called “malpractice.”
The “magic number” of voters the Trump campaign has revealed it wants to turn out — 48,000 — is highly optimistic in the view of other Republican campaigns and independent experts.
“It’s easy for someone to sit on a phone when they get a polling call and say, ‘I like candidate X,’ ” said Steve Grubbs, the Iowa state director for Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, referring to Mr. Trump’s strength in Iowa polls. “It’s far different to get that person out of a La-Z-Boy to hop in a car and avoid the black ice and head to their local firehouse.”
Mr. Grubbs, who said he had already signed up 800 precinct captains for Mr. Paul, added, “You really have to put your organization together by Dec. 15.”
Mr. Trump has about 15 paid Iowa staff members, compared with 36 working for a “super PAC“ supporting Ben Carson that is organizing in his behalf in Iowa. Asked where Carson supporters have canvassed in Iowa, Tina Goff, who is directing the troops, said, “Where haven’t we canvassed?”
The campaign of Mr. Cruz opened a 48-bed dormitory in Des Moines this month, nicknamed Camp Cruz, for what it says will be 500 volunteers from out of state. They will knock on doors and make calls to potential supporters, who are identified by microtargeting software.
Because of the peculiar nature of the caucuses, for which voters gather in classrooms and senior centers at an appointed hour, turnout is lower than for primaries. A representative of each candidate — a precinct captain — may give a brief speech, and then there is a secret ballot. Only about one in five active registered Republicans have historically participated, making a candidate’s get-out-the-vote organizing critical.
But Mr. Trump “so far is not running a traditional campaign reliant on the fundamentals,” said Jeff Patch, a Republican strategist in Iowa unaffiliated with a candidate. “A campaign depending on turning out low-propensity G.O.P. voters and bringing new voters into the process should be registering people in December and January.”
In Davenport, a blue-collar city on the Mississippi River, a paid Trump staff member and two volunteers worked their phones early this month from a restaurant booth, encouraging people to attend a Dec. 5 rally with Mr. Trump.
Fanned across the table was an inch-thick stack of pages with registered Republicans. The campaign had yet to narrow the universe of thousands of Republicans in the Davenport area to potential Trump supporters, the kind of screening some campaigns had already done.
Betsey Tibbitts, a volunteer sipping white wine, got off a call with a voter named Mildred. “Mildred is a big X,” she said. “Mildred is not going to vote for him.”
She was more encouraged on the next call when a woman said she was logging on to her computer right then to register for free tickets to the rally.
Chuck Laudner, Mr. Trump’s Iowa state director, declined repeated requests to discuss the details of his field effort. In a brief interview after a Trump rally, he disputed the notion that Mr. Trump could not turn out a huge wave of first-time caucusgoers.
“The media says the conventional wisdom is new people don’t come out and vote,” he said. In the 1980s, he added, “when I cut my teeth, Pat Robertson turned out the entire religious right that had never mobilized before.”
The demographics of Trump supporters reveal his challenges: They are younger, lack a college degree and are less likely to be evangelical Christians, according to polling. The profile of past caucusgoers is the opposite: most are 45 and up, college educated and evangelical.
What the Trump campaign has going for it is the enthusiasm the candidate inspires at his rallies, which are the largest of any Republican.
“I take Trump’s caucus prospects very seriously,” said an operative supporting another candidate, speaking on the condition of anonymity to candidly assess a rival. “It’s true that new candidates think they can change history. It’s true that they never do. It’s true we’ve never had a new candidate like Trump.”
Trump supporters compare him to another candidate in recent caucus history who generated record-setting turnout by first-time voters: Barack Obama. But unlike the Trump campaign, Mr. Obama invested heavily in Iowa. He had over 200 paid staff members in more than 60 offices.
Derek Eadon, an Obama organizer in 2007 and a political consultant in Des Moines, said that despite collecting contact information for people to attend Trump rallies, the campaign was neglecting follow-through.
“It’s very tough to activate via email without field staff following up on the phone and asking them to volunteer or talk about the campaign,” he said. “It’s malpractice not to follow up with those folks immediately.”
Of eight people interviewed at a Trump rally in Waterloo in early October, all gave the Trump campaign their emails. Contacted recently by a reporter, four of the eight said they had not received any follow-up. The others received a mass email asking them to volunteer for Mr. Trump, but they were uninterested. Russell Hotchkiss said he was too busy with a 1-year-old and a small business to be a political activist. Judy Cruze, a nurse, deleted the campaign’s emails and has no intention of caucusing for anyone.
For its training session last weekend, the Trump campaign had sought out people who had attended rallies to be caucus leaders. The modest participation for the session in person and online contradicted Mr. Laudner’s promise to have nearly 1,700 caucus leaders in place by Thanksgiving, as he told NBC News in October.
The volunteer leaders, known as precinct captains, learned that they would be responsible for bringing 25 or more people from their neighborhoods to the caucuses. They were shown how to download an app, Ground Game 2, with a “walk list” of registered Republicans in their precincts.
It was clear from the training that the Trump campaign was only beginning to identify supporters, and that its volunteers could face unique challenges in going door to door.
“Just listen to them,” a Trump staff member advised volunteers on how to elicit and record issues on voters’ minds. “If they’re concerned about the border,” he said, mark down immigration. “If they’re worried about space aliens stealing the fillings out of their teeth, it’s ‘other.’ ”
Tana Goertz, a peppy former contestant on  “The Apprentice,” Mr. Trump’s reality television program, enticingly held out the prospect of rewards for the best performers, like a game show.
“At the end of the caucus night, Mr. Trump is going to know who won their precincts, and he’s going to know you were the precinct leaders,” she said. “I know he does nice things. You will be recognized.”
KENNESAW, Ga. — He arrives on his own plane, dropping in for a stemwinder before jetting off again.
He is attracting supporters — loyal, angry, often new to politics — willing to wait in the cold or the sun or the parking lot of a strip mall to see him.
He cannot help bragging about his crowds.
“Why am I so optimistic?” Senator Ted Cruz shouted during his speech here, marveling at the venue his following now required. “Because we’re in an airplane hangar instead of a Denny’s!”
As he vaults toward the top of the Republican presidential field, leading some Iowa polls and climbing nationally, Mr. Cruz has taken care to compliment Donald J. Trump at every opportunity. And in the throes of a seven-day, 12-city swing to demonstrate strength beyond the early-voting states, Mr. Cruz’s flattery seems at times to have taken a new form: imitation.
In ways cosmetic and substantive, Mr. Cruz has in recent days seemed to more closely resemble the man he has been chasing — or, more precisely, quietly drafting behind — for months.
Perhaps most notably, Mr. Cruz has sharpened his already uncompromising language, eager to retain his own hold on popular anger against the political class, and to demonstrate conservative purity amid attacks from Senator Marco Rubio over immigration and national security policies.
He has coined a new phrase, “undocumented Democrats,” to describe those in the country illegally, and beefed up sections of his stump speech focused on immigration. He expressed amusement that Mr. Rubio had at last described his views on immigration “not only on Spanish-language television but on English-language television,” echoing some far-right commentators who have suggested that Mr. Rubio is more willing to present himself as a pragmatist on the issue when speaking Spanish.
And in a turn that called to mind, for some, Gov. George Wallace’s famous 1963 refrain in praise of segregation during the civil rights movement, Mr. Cruz pledged to oppose legal status for undocumented immigrants “today, tomorrow, forever.”
If the Cruz campaign fears that his words will narrow his path in a possible general election, the candidate has betrayed little unease. His crowds during the swing have been among his most enthusiastic in recent memory, if not as large as many of Mr. Trump’s, as the campaign delivers a taste of the primary season to parts of the country often ignored in the weeks before states like Iowa and New Hampshire go to the polls.
“Here they’re not going to have a lot of opportunities to engage with a presidential campaign,” Jeff Roe, Mr. Cruz’s campaign manager, said as his candidate spoke in St. Paul on Thursday, before heading to the South. “When they do engage with a presidential campaign, I want it to be a meaningful engagement that lasts for hopefully their whole life and our whole life.”
Here in Kennesaw, where Mr. Cruz delayed his event by several hours to travel to Washington for a vote, more than 1,000 people gathered in front of a Western-themed nightclub at a strip mall. They got on a bus, were taken to the airplane hangar and waited in an unseasonable chill to cheer the senator when he arrived with his family by chartered plane.
In Daphne, Ala., a standing-room crowd packed a civic center, listening raptly as Senator Jeff Sessions outlined Mr. Cruz’s role in the 2013 fight over immigration reform and rising for several ovations during the candidate’s stump speech.
“Let me tell you what I intend to do on my first day in office,” Mr. Cruz began at one point.
“Put Hillary in jail!” a man shouted.
Mr. Cruz smiled. “She may already be there,” he said. “But if so, I’ll be sure to bake her a cake and send it to her.”
Several voters interviewed across three states on the trip so far said they admired Mr. Trump, and had previously considered supporting him, but had found themselves drifting toward Mr. Cruz. “He’s a Southern guy,” Frank Dolhan, 50, said of Mr. Cruz in Kennesaw. “Trump’s a Northern guy.”
Mike Homan, 35, of Dallas, Ga., attended the event with a Trump supporter, Howard Adkins, whom he hoped to flip. Mr. Adkins wondered if Mr. Cruz might be able to preserve the spirit of some of Mr. Trump’s more explosive proposals, like restricting Muslim entry into the country, which he said had veered “unconstitutional, a little.”
“It’s a hard thing to do,” Mr. Adkins said, “to stay within our Constitution and keep people out.”
An event on Sunday in Trussville, Ala., included residents who had attended Mr. Trump’s rally in nearby Birmingham last month.
“They have very similar messages,” said Steve McMunn, 63, who remains torn between the two.
“Cruz was more specific,” his wife, Janice, said.
“That’s Trump,” Mr. McMunn replied.
Mr. Cruz, unlike Mr. Trump and most other candidates, has installed formidable ground-game operations across several states that vote on March 1, viewing the South as central to building a delegate lead. Mr. Cruz will continue his Super Tuesday tour this week in Tennessee, Arkansas and Oklahoma, three more states that the campaign expects to be favorable turf for a conservative.
The trip has also contributed to Mr. Cruz’s vaunted data trove, aided by a text message campaign — plugged by Mr. Cruz from the stage — and a Santa Claus-based strategy to collect contact information. (The campaign has recruited actors to play Santa at every stop, allowing voters to pose for pictures that they can only access by entering their names, emails and ZIP codes on Mr. Cruz’s website.)
The weekend also included a Christmas flourish of another sort, with an assist from Mr. Trump. The campaign ran a campy parody ad in Iowa during Saturday Night Live, with the Cruz family reading Christmas tales like “How Obamacare Stole Christmas” and “Rudolph the Underemployed Reindeer.” The ad placement stemmed from an equal-time request made after Mr. Trump hosted the NBC program last month.
“They have Tina Fey, which will have big numbers,” Mr. Roe, the campaign manager, said before the Daphne rally on Saturday, interrupting his explanation of the strategy every few moments to spit chewing tobacco into a water bottle.
While Mr. Cruz has remained deferential to Mr. Trump, who continues to lead national polls, at least one co-star from the family Christmas ad seems to have her sights on him. Introducing her husband on Sunday, Heidi Cruz recalled telling their 7-year-old daughter Caroline recently that Mr. Cruz was polling first in Iowa and second nationally. 
“Mom, that was yesterday’s news,” the girl replied, before offering a bit of advice. “I think you guys should try to be No. 1 nationally.”
HONOLULU — President Obama said in a radio interview that began airing on Monday that Donald J. Trump, a leading contender for the Republican presidential nomination, was exploiting the resentment and anxieties of working-class men to boost his campaign. Mr. Obama also argued that some of the scorn directed at him personally stemmed from the fact that he is the first African-American to hold the White House.
Demographic changes and economic stresses, including “flat-lining” wages and incomes, have meant that “particularly blue-collar men have had a lot of trouble in this new economy, where they are no longer getting the same bargain that they got when they were going to a factory and able to support their families on a single paycheck,” Mr. Obama said in the interview with National Public Radio.
“You combine those things, and it means that there is going to be potential anger, frustration, fear — some of it justified, but just misdirected,” the president added. “I think somebody like Mr. Trump is taking advantage of that. That’s what he’s exploiting during the course of his campaign.”
The comments were Mr. Obama’s most pointed response to Mr. Trump since the Republican candidate suggested that Muslims be barred from entering the United States after the mass shooting in San Bernardino, Calif. The attack was carried out by a couple who apparently were radicalized Muslims, one of whom had entered the United States on a fiancée visa.
In the wide-ranging interview, conducted the day before he left Washington on Friday for a two-week holiday vacation with his family in Hawaii, Mr. Obama defended his approach to taking on the Islamic State. He dismissed the notion that the militant group is an existential threat to the United States even as he conceded that he had received “legitimate criticism” for failing to adequately explain his strategy for confronting it.
He also described his view of the anxiety on which Mr. Trump has capitalized, arguing that some voters who voice fears about his presidency and doubts about where Mr. Obama’s loyalties lie are reacting to the fact that he is the first black president.
“If you are referring to specific strains in the Republican Party that suggest that somehow I’m different, I’m Muslim, I’m disloyal to the country, etc. — which unfortunately is pretty far out there, and gets some traction in certain pockets of the Republican Party, and that have been articulated by some of their elected officials — what I’d say there is that that’s probably pretty specific to me, and who I am and my background,” Mr. Obama told Steve Inskeep, a host of “Morning Edition” on NPR. “In some ways, I may represent change that worries them.”
“That’s not to suggest that everybody who objects to my policies may not have perfectly good reasons for it,” the president added. He noted, as an example, that voters living in coal-dependent areas may blame him for the loss of their jobs.
Mr. Obama has struggled to appeal to white voters who do not have a college education, carrying only 36 percent of them when he was re-elected in 2012. Republicans perform particularly well among that group, although it represents a shrinking share of the electorate.
On the Islamic State, which is also called ISIS or ISIL, Mr. Obama pushed back against criticism of his approach and said he was “confident that we are going to prevail.”
“This is a serious challenge — ISIS is a virulent, nasty organization that has gained a foothold in ungoverned spaces effectively in Syria and parts of western Iraq,” Mr. Obama said, referring to attacks the group organized in Paris and apparently inspired in San Bernardino. “But it is also important for us to keep things in perspective, and this is not an organization that can destroy the United States.”
He also suggested that heavy coverage of the media-savvy extremist group by news outlets chasing viewership had contributed to the public anxiety that has dragged down his approval ratings on the issue.
“If you’ve been watching television for the last month, all you have been seeing, all you have been hearing about is these guys with masks or black flags who are potentially coming to get you,” Mr. Obama said. “And so I understand why people are concerned about it.”
Asked whether news organizations had been manipulated by the Islamic State, he added: “Look, the media is pursuing ratings. This is a legitimate news story.”
He rejected critiques from Republican presidential candidates who have suggested “carpet bombing” the group, as well as the suggestion by Hillary Clinton, his party’s leading presidential candidate, that the United States establish a “no-fly zone” over Syria. He argued that doing so would require substantial ground troops and would fail to damage the Islamic State, which does not have an air force.
Still, the president said his administration had not done enough to explain its strategy and promote its successes in carrying it out.
“There is a legitimate criticism of what I’ve been doing and our administration has been doing in the sense that we haven’t, you know, on a regular basis, I think, described all the work that we’ve been doing for more than a year now to defeat ISIL,” Mr. Obama said.
On domestic matters, Mr. Obama said he was concerned that a recent uptick in campus protests around the country, in which students have shone a spotlight on racial misunderstandings, has in some cases shut down important debates.
“I think it’s a healthy thing for young people to be engaged, and to question authority,” Mr. Obama said. “I do think that there have been times on college campuses where I get concerned that the unwillingness to hear other points of view can be as unhealthy on the left as on the right.”
He cited as examples student protests last year of planned appearances by Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, at Smith College, and Condoleezza Rice, the former secretary of state, at Rutgers that led both women to withdraw.
“Feel free to disagree with somebody,” the president said, “but don’t try to just shut them up.”
LONDON — Donald J. Trump and Maryam Namazie are divided by more than the width of the Atlantic. One is a reactionary, with bigoted ideas seemingly about everyone from Mexicans to Muslims. He is also currently a leading candidate to be the next president of the United States. The other is an Iranian feminist, living in exile in Britain, a fierce critic of Islamism and a defender of equal rights.
What links them is that there are many people in Britain who do not wish to let one or the other speak.
Mr. Trump’s recent call for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States” caused outrage across the world. More than half a million Britons signed a petition to Parliament demanding that he be barred from Britain, a demand that has been backed by senior political figures.
The furor over Ms. Namazie’s views has caused fewer ripples, but is no less significant. Ms. Namazie is a founding member of the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain, an organization that campaigns on behalf of those facing hostility for renouncing their Islamic faith, or “apostasy.”
In the strange world of contemporary radicalism, however, many look upon Ms. Namazie almost as they regard Mr. Trump: as an “Islamophobe.” Student groups at several universities, including the University of Warwick and Trinity College Dublin, have attempted to stop her from speaking on campus.
Last month, the Islamic Society at Goldsmith’s College, part of the University of London, objected to Ms. Namazie’s speaking there on the grounds that it would be a “violation of our safe space,” creating “a climate of hatred and bigotry towards Muslim students.” When the meeting went ahead, members of the Islamic Society attempted to disrupt Ms. Namazie’s talk, and were accused of making death threats. The college’s Feminist and L.G.B.T. Societies expressed their solidarity — not with Ms. Namazie, but with the Islamic Society, claiming that “hosting known Islamophobes at our university creates a climate of hatred.”
All this reveals the odd relationship that many on the left have with Islam. They view all Muslims as helpless victims, and regard any criticism of Islam as a form of bigotry. A columnist for The Guardian, David Shariatmadari, called the attempt at Warwick to muzzle Ms. Namazie “reasonable” because “we don’t want to have any part in the further stigmatisation of Islam.” Some academics disdainfully dismiss liberal Muslim critics of Islam as “native informants” — defined by one academic as “insiders” who “air the dirty laundry of Muslim communities.”
Just as Mr. Trump seems unable to distinguish between Muslims and terrorists, do many on the left seem unable to distinguish between criticism of Islam and bigotry against Muslims. And just as Mr. Trump views Muslims as an undifferentiated lump, all potential terrorists, those on the left also often view Muslims as a homogeneous community speaking with a single voice. Both ignore progressive Muslim voices as not being truly of that community, while celebrating the most conservative voices as authentic.
I once interviewed Naser Khader, a secular Muslim and a Danish member of Parliament. He recalled a conversation with Toger Seidenfaden, then editor of the left-wing newspaper Politiken, about the “Muhammad cartoons” that had caused global controversy in 2005 when published in another Danish paper, Jyllands-Posten.
Mr. Seidenfaden claimed that “the cartoons insulted all Muslims.” “I am not insulted,” Mr. Khader responded. “But you’re not a real Muslim” came the reply. To be a real Muslim is, from such a perspective, to find the cartoons offensive. Anyone who isn’t offended is, by definition, not a real Muslim.
Right-wing bigots may see all Muslims as reactionary, but so, apparently, do many left-wing and liberal antiracists.
If there is something in common between the views of Mr. Trump and those of Ms. Namazie’s critics, there is also a link between the opponents of Mr. Trump and Ms. Namazie. Mr. Trump’s denounce him as spouting hatred; Ms. Namazie’s say she does the same. And many in both camps think that the best way to deal with hatred is through censorship.
I believe Ms. Namazie is right in much of her criticism of Islam, while I agree that Mr. Trump’s attack on Muslims is bigotry. But both, in my view, should be allowed to say what they wish, and if we disagree, we should challenge them publicly. Yet, as the attempts to bar Mr. Trump from entering Britain and prevent Ms. Namazie from addressing students reveal, many would rather their views were not heard at all.
This is not simply a battle between American and European perspectives on free speech. It is true that the United States protects speech with the First Amendment, while Europe restricts it with hate speech laws. But as current debates on American campuses about trigger warnings, microaggressions and safe spaces reveal, many in the United States are as keen as Europeans to limit speech.
The First Amendment is hugely important, but what also matters is the culture within which laws operate. On both sides of the Atlantic, there has been a noticeable shift toward a more censorious culture.
The debates over barring Mr. Trump and Ms. Namazie show why such a culture is dangerous. Censoring ugly ideas will not make them go away. Mr. Trump’s poll ratings have improved since his comments on Muslim immigration. Many Americans agree with him, and as support for anti-immigration groups show, many Europeans do, too. Keeping Mr. Trump out of Britain will not erase such views. Attitudes will be changed only by publicly challenging them.
Hatred is an elastic concept. One person’s political truth can be another person’s hate speech. As Ms. Namazie’s case shows, censoring hate speech can become a means of shutting down political debate.
It’s those who want to challenge hatred, in whatever form it appears, who most need free speech. On both sides of the Atlantic, we need less censorship, more debate.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good morning.
Here’s what you need to know:
• An ISIS fighter’s journey.
A double-amputee who defected from Syria’s rebels to the terrorist group did so for money, power and the Islamic State’s license for viciousness — not the typical inspirations laid out in terrorist propaganda.
And as President Obama tries to intensify the campaign against Islamic State militants, he points to the challenges in targeting those who live and work alongside civilians.
Here’s where ISIS gained and lost territory this year.
• President Obama opens up.
The president told NPR, in an interview airing today, that some of the scorn directed at him stemmed from his being the first African-American in the White House. He also said that Donald J. Trump is exploiting the resentment and anxieties of working-class men to lift his campaign.
Mr. Obama and his family are vacationing in Hawaii for the next two weeks. He ended 2015 with a series of accomplishments.
• On the campaign trail.
Most of the presidential candidates are crisscrossing Iowa and New Hampshire this week. But Donald J. Trump, whose ground game is lagging in Iowa, is in Grand Rapids, Mich.
Ted Cruz, who’s rising in the polls, tries to compliment Mr. Trump at every opportunity, but he is beginning to sound more like the real estate magnate, too.
Hillary Clinton largely looked past her Democratic rivals in Saturday night’s debate, instead repeatedly assailing the Republican field and calling Mr. Trump a threat to the nation’s safety.
• Soccer leaders are barred.
Sepp Blatter and Michel Platini, two leaders of the world soccer federation, FIFA, were barred from the sport for eight years today after being found guilty of ethics violations.
• Searching for survivors.
More than 1,000 rescue workers are searching through rubble after a landslide buried  an industrial district in Shenzhen, China. Nearly 100 people were reported missing and dozens of buildings were destroyed.
Separately, about 80 people are missing after a ferry sank in Indonesia.
• Gay rights in Africa.
Many gay Nigerians say they have been subjected to new levels of harassment and violence since an anti-gay law went into effect last year. U.S. support is being blamed for making gay men and lesbians more visible — and more vulnerable.
• New protections for lions.
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will announce today that lions in central and West Africa will be listed as endangered, while lions in southern and East Africa will be classified as threatened.
The actions come five months after a lion named Cecil was shot and killed in Zimbabwe by a Minnesota dentist.
• Supergalactic.
“Star Wars: The Force Awakens” earned about $517 million in ticket sales worldwide, obliterating multiple box office records, even when accounting for inflation.
Disney is working on four more “Star Wars”-related movies.
BUSINESS
• Lobbyists added 54 words to the tax-and-spending bill, signed into law on Friday, that preserves a $1 billion loophole sought by the hotel, restaurant and gambling industries, as well as billionaire investors on Wall Street.
• Wealthy investors could decide the fate of Puerto Rico, the American territory trying to stave off collapse.
• Theranos, the blood-testing start-up valued at $9 billion, is awaiting approval of its technology by the Food and Drug Administration.
• Here are snapshots of the U.S. and world markets.
OVER THE WEEKEND
• Martin Shkreli, the pharmaceuticals entrepreneur known for price-gouging, returned home after posting bail of $5 million.
• Peace talks on Yemen ended with no resolution, but there is now a diplomacy plan for Syria.

• Spain’s governing party won the most votes but lost its majority in Parliament, leaving the country’s leadership unclear.
• The youngest convict in a notorious 2012 gang rape in New Delhi was released from prison, leading to large protests.
• A New York City man was convicted in a hate-crime attack on a transgender woman that left her with a traumatic brain injury.
• Catching up on TV: Recaps of the season finales of “The Knick,” “Homeland” and “The Affair.” Plus, Tina Fey and Amy Poehler on “Saturday Night Live.”
NOTEWORTHY
•Honest mistake.
Miss Philippines was crowned Miss Universe, but only after Miss Colombia was accidentally named the winner, in the first pageant since Donald J. Trump sold the Miss Universe Organization.
• A lesson on lyrics.
Though the Supreme Court is in its winter recess, hip-hop stars will file a brief today supporting a Mississippi high school student who was disciplined for posting a rap song online.
The legal summary seems to assume that the justices know little about hip-hop.
• Panthers stay perfect.
Carolina got a field goal as time expired, outlasting the New York Giants, 38-35, and improved to 14-0. Here are all the Week 15 N.F.L. scores and highlights.
Off the field, the company that distributes live data from N.F.L. games is a major player in online sports betting, which is almost entirely illegal in the U.S.
• In memoriam.
Kurt Masur, a conductor who transformed the New York Philharmonic, died at 88.
• Last chance.
The Postal Service recommends sending Priority Mail for Christmas delivery no later than today.
BACK STORY
What’s a 14-letter word — that begins with a C — for obsessive wordsmith? If you guessed “cruciverbalist,” you most likely love crossword puzzles (and are good at them).
The first modern version appeared on this day in 1913, in The New York World. It was instantly popular and grew into a national craze. Most leading American newspapers carried a crossword by the 1930s.
But The New York Times editorial page called it “a sinful waste in the utterly futile finding of words” in 1924.
Our newspaper held out until 1942, when the crossword debuted in The Sunday Magazine. The decision was influenced by World War II and “a need for relaxation of some kind or other,” an internal memo said.
The first clue of our first crossword was “famous one-eyed general.” The six-letter answer: “Wavell” (of Britain). Puzzles have appeared daily since 1950.
The Times’s current puzzle editor, Will Shortz, holds the world’s only college degree in enigmatology (the study of puzzles). He’s also National Public Radio’s “puzzle master.”
Many readers now solve the puzzle on The Times’s website, where there are thousands more as well as a popular blog.
The newest rage, though, is the mini-crossword, sized for a smartphone.
Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.
What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

The array of sleek appliances is what you might expect from someone who has worked for years in restaurants and the food media: two stand mixers, a blender, a food processor, an ice-cream maker, an espresso machine.
Yet the most trusted gadget in David Lebovitz’s spacious kitchen has no knobs, buttons or electrical cord: a large mortar and pestle made of granite.
“It’s one of my favorite things,” said Mr. Lebovitz, 56, a best-selling cookbook author and a pioneer of food blogging. “It’s nice to be reminded that it takes a little bit of moxie to make something.”
A dessert specialist who has his own pastry app, Mr. Lebovitz started working in restaurant kitchens at age 16 and left this career for food writing in the late 1990s. In his apartment kitchen, where he tests recipes, he keeps a close watch on his creations by working with his stone tools.
“When you make pesto, you’re smooshing it, you’re really grinding it, you’re seeing what’s happening,” he said, demonstrating (in a moment when he wasn’t cradling the mortar protectively in two hands) how to twist the pestle against the rough bowl of the mortar, making a sound like a brick being nudged along the floor.
His blog, davidlebovitz.com, is known for its quirky, straight-shooting stories about food and Paris, where he lives. His observations are neither sentimental nor caustic: One day he wrote about the meringues that clogged his toilet when he tried to flush them; on another, he mentioned that his French partner, Romain, is too talkative early in the morning.
Mr. Lebovitz started his site in 1999, before WordPress, Twitter or Facebook. His latest cookbook, “My Paris Kitchen,” was published in 2014, and he is working on his eighth book.
A native of West Hartford, Conn., he earned a film degree from Ithaca College and began cooking at Cabbagetown Cafe, a nearby vegetarian restaurant, now closed, where almost all machines were banned from the kitchen. He learned to use a mortar and pestle at Chez Panisse, the seminal farm-to-table restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., where he was a pastry cook for 13 years.
Mr. Lebovitz moved to Paris in 2004 on a whim, arriving with little luggage and renting a small apartment in the Bastille neighborhood. He quickly hit the streets in search of cookware. “One of the things I couldn’t live without was a mortar and pestle,” he said.
Today, it gets a workout several times a week — for crushing spices or salts, pounding garlic for aioli or grinding caramelized nuts into praline paste. “You can’t really make tapenade or pesto without it,” he said. “You can make it in a food processor, but it’s not the same. Food processors chop things, whereas a mortar and pestle makes a paste. It emulsifies it.”
The work can be tiring, he said, but it pays its way: “You can make lots of appetizers. You can make main courses. You can grind hummus, make Middle Eastern food, French food. There’s probably American food you can make in here, but I can’t think of any right now.”
Not long ago, Donald J. Trump and Russell Simmons were close.
Mr. Simmons, the hip-hop mogul, and his brother Rev. Run would fly on Mr. Trump’s private plane to Mar-a-Lago, the real estate developer’s lavish Florida resort. Mr. Simmons even had a playful nickname for Mr. Trump: Richie Rich.
When Mr. Simmons was going through a divorce, Mr. Trump’s teasing phone calls lifted his spirits.
“He’d say funny stuff,” Mr. Simmons said, adding that he had put Mr. Trump on speakerphone so that others could hear Mr. Trump’s jovial taunts about his ex-wife’s getting the upper hand in the divorce. “He’d say, ‘Oh, she killed you.’ ”
But the bond between the two men came apart this month: After Mr. Trump called for Muslims to be barred from entering the United States, Mr. Simmons denounced his onetime friend, telling him in an open letter to “stop fueling fires of hate.”
Mr. Trump’s rise in the contest for the Republican presidential nomination — which has also prompted accusations that he is using racially charged language and has drawn comparisons to the segregationist George Wallace — has created some discord among African-American celebrities whom Mr. Trump has called friends. The billionaire developer has long courted personalities from sports and entertainment — including the boxer Mike Tyson, the former N.B.A. star Dennis Rodman, and the rapper and producer Sean Combs — and has made them part of his world in strikingly personal ways.
Some of Mr. Trump’s African-American friends and acquaintances say they are mystified by the candidate’s sweeping attacks on minority groups. In addition to his comments about Muslims, he has said Mexico sends “rapists” and other criminals to the United States, has exaggerated the role of blacks in violent crime and suggested that a Black Lives Matter protester who interrupted one of his campaign rallies “should have been roughed up” by his supporters.
While Mr. Simmons has denounced Mr. Trump, others are sticking by him, saying that they were drawn to him in part because of his unvarnished personality — and his loyalty — and that they would not abandon him now.
“Hey, that’s my man. That’s who he is,” said Don King, the boxing promoter, discussing what he called Mr. Trump’s “outlandish” remarks. “To me, Donald is Donald. That’s not a presidential endorsement, but it is a humanistic endorsement.”
Mr. Tyson, who is Muslim, recently defended Mr. Trump, telling the website TMZ, “Hey, listen, anybody that was ever president of the United States offended some group of people.”
While Mr. Trump’s statements have become more incendiary since his campaign began, his worldview was already on display over the years in his interactions with African-American friends, who have at times been forgiving of remarks that struck other audiences as insensitive.
“He’d say ‘the blacks,’ ‘the Jews,’ that stuff,” Mr. Simmons recalled. “But it’s the same way people speak bluntly — like, very ’hood. It’s semantics.”
Mr. Simmons did not publicly shun Mr. Trump in 2011 when the real estate developer showed support for those challenging President Obama’s right to American citizenship and to the presidency, which many black leaders saw as an effort to undermine the legitimacy of the first African-American in the White House. After Mr. Trump spoke of a “Muslim problem” in a television interview that year, Mr. Simmons arranged for him to meet with Muslim clerics to gain more sensitivity about their faith.
Herschel Walker, a football great who played for the New Jersey Generals when Mr. Trump bought the team  in the 1980s and who considers him a friend, said some of the candidate’s recent statements were being taken too literally. 
“I don’t think Donald is against Muslims, or blacks, or Hispanics,” Mr. Walker said. “I do know he is going to try to make this country safe.”
Mr. Trump has long relished the company of famous and successful people, seeing in their accomplishments a reflection of his own greatness, those who know him say. He likes to brag about his closeness to celebrities, once saying of Michael Jackson, who kept a home in a Trump building in Manhattan, “He follows me around, in the sense that he likes what I have.”
Mr. King and others say Mr. Trump tends to size up people based on whether he sees them as being of his stature, rather than according to their race.
“What matters to Trump is success,” Mr. King, 84, said in a phone interview, recalling fondly how their friendship grew from ringside encounters at boxing matches in Atlantic City. “If you are achieving success, you meet the test.”
The Rev. Al Sharpton, who has been friendly with Mr. Trump over the years but at times battled with him, was more critical. He suggested the billionaire was drawn to accomplished African-Americans for a different reason: to help his businesses.
“Black celebrities and luminaries live in a world that is much more engaging of Trump, and parallel with Trump’s world, than those of us that have been in politics and civil rights on the ground for as long as Trump has been out there,” Mr. Sharpton said. Mr. Trump has little understanding of the lives of the vast majority of African-Americans, he said.
“It’s not like there’s a Trump building in Harlem,” he added.
Mr. Trump, 69, is no stranger to racial controversy. He was raised in an exclusive, nearly all-white section of Queens in an era when tribal politics dominated New York, and in the 1970s, the Justice Department accused him and his father of bias against black tenants in buildings they owned. They reached an agreement  with the federal government in 1975.
In 1989, Mr. Trump took out full -page ad vertisements in four New York newspapers calling for the reinstatement of the death penalty after five men — four of them black — were arrested on charges of brutalizing and raping a white woman who was jogging in Central Park. Decades later, the five were  exonerated.
As his businesses expanded in the mid-1980s, it was mostly white staff members who worked on the top floor of the Trump Organization’s offices on Fifth Avenue, recalled Jacqueline M. Williams, who was an executive assistant in her 20s at the time. Still, Ms. Williams, a Jamaican immigrant, remembered a “warm, professional environment.”
Ms. Williams, who left the company to pursue further education, said she found Mr. Trump’s recent statements “shocking” given her positive experiences.
In recent years, Mr. Trump has been accused of racial insensitivity by contestants on his reality show, “The Apprentice,” on NBC. One African-American contestant, Randal Pinkett, who worked for the Trump Organization for a year after winning the show’s fourth season, called race a “tremendous blind spot” for his former boss.
Still, several high-profile African-Americans, including some who have condemned his campaign remarks and his promotion of conspiracy theories about Mr. Obama’s eligibility for the presidency, appear torn about whether Mr. Trump is, at heart, a racist — or whether he is cynically playing to the anxieties of white Americans at a time of great demographic change to bolster his political standing.
Their experience is complicated, too, by Mr. Trump’s extensions of kindness to them.
“I knew him in another life,” said the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the civil rights activist, who has known Mr. Trump for three decades and who once used office space on Wall Street donated to him by Mr. Trump. “I have never seen him in this light before.”
Mr. Jackson said Mr. Trump’s words on the campaign trail were “devastating, painful and hurtful.” But when asked if Mr. Trump was a racist, Mr. Jackson said, “I don’t want to use that language.”
Mr. Sharpton said his godfather, the singer James Brown, once told him it was permissible to perform at a property owned by the Trump Organization because Mr. Trump was “trying to evolve” on race. But Mr. Sharpton said he did not know whether Mr. Trump was racist, adding, “I don’t think it matters.”
“What he’s saying appeals to racists,” Mr. Sharpton said. “He’s too smart to not know what he’s doing.”
Polling on African-Americans’ views of Mr. Trump is scarce because so few vote in Republican primaries. But in a nationwide poll of voters released this month by Quinnipiac University, 88 percent of black respondents answered “no” when asked if Mr. Trump “cares about the needs and problems of people like you.”
Still, those who have befriended Mr. Trump spoke with genuine affection for him in interviews, saying they had been invited into his world of jet-setting, opulent homes and a welcoming family.
Mr. Walker and Mr. Trump, for example, came from very different places — Mr. Walker is from a tiny town in Georgia — but became fast friends. Mr. Trump once accompanied Mr. Walker and his wife at the time on a visit to Disney World. Mr. Walker said he had taken Mr. Trump’s children to the zoo and had visited his homes in Connecticut and Mar-a-Lago.
“We stayed together, and we always talked,” Mr. Walker said. “We were always doing something. As of today, I call him a friend.”
Mr. Simmons said he had met Mr. Trump in the 1980s “at the clubs.” “There were hot events, whatever, the cool events, where we spoke,” he said.
Over the past 20 years, he said, they spent more time together, with Mr. Simmons getting to know Mr. Trump’s family and spending time at Mar-a-Lago.
“He was a good host, that’s for sure,” Mr. Simmons said. “You’d be in the steam room and he’d come in, fully clothed, and say, ‘You guys O.K. in there?’ Just a nice guy.”
And Mr. Trump did not even mind his Richie Rich nickname, Mr. Simmons said. Above all, he said, Mr. Trump was fun.
Mr. King, who over the years has found himself entangled in public disputes, hostile lawsuits and accusations of fraud, said Mr. Trump “would always be there” to defend him.
“He’s not afraid,” Mr. King said. “He’s a counterpuncher. You throw a punch at him, he’s going to throw one back.”
These days, Mr. King has Mr. Trump’s back. While acknowledging that Mr. Trump had made mistakes in his campaign, he said Mr. Trump was not a racist, but was merely misunderstood.
For Mohamed Abdelfattah, an Egyptian filmmaker who moved to Arizona four months ago to live near his wife’s family, the media frenzy around the presidential candidacy of Donald J. Trump has been a central part of his introduction to life in the United States.
That Mr. Trump’s campaign has focused chiefly on the perceived threat posed by immigrants, including those from Muslim lands, has made the whole thing a good deal more personal than it might have been otherwise.
So last week, when Mr. Trump staged a rally at an airport outside Phoenix, Mr. Abdelfattah decided that this might be as good a time as any to begin a personal project he had been planning since he arrived: an episodic video blog about his first year in America.
Working in a style inspired by Louis Theroux, the British filmmaker whose documentaries revolve around his attempts to make sense of his subjects, Mr. Abdelfattah grabbed a microphone and described the spectacle outside the rally, in Arabic and in English, to a camera wielded by his wife, Jenny Montasir, an Egyptian-American video journalist.
In the concise, funny, seven-minute portrait of the campaign event, Mr. Abdelfattah, 28, spoke with supporters of the candidate, including Jon Ritzheimer, a former Marine, who organized an armed protest at a Phoenix mosque in May, and brandished a gun in a Facebook video last month as he disparaged Syrian refugees and President Obama.
Mr. Abdelfattah, who is originally from Alexandria but lived in Cairo throughout the upheaval of the past five years, said in an interview that his aim was to portray life in America “as if I’m talking to my friends back in Egypt.”
He added that while “my intention is not to portray just bad or stupid things,” the impact of the Trump campaign on his first months here was just impossible to ignore.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. Iraqi forces backed by U.S. airstrikes are battling for control of Ramadi, an Islamic State stronghold in Iraq. “I think the fall of Ramadi is inevitable,” a U.S. military spokesman said, adding: “That said, it’s going to be a tough fight.” Fighting was also intense in southern Afghanistan, where British forces joined in to help direct the battle against the Taliban.
_____
2. The Obama administration is stepping up efforts in South Africa to combat poaching, which has driven several species to near extinction and financed international criminal gangs. “The impact of wildlife trafficking isn’t just contained to Africa,” said Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, who has pushed anti-poaching efforts.
_____
3. Donald Trump took his criticism of Hillary Clinton into vulgar territory. At a rally for his presidential campaign in Michigan on Monday night, he said that when she lost the 2008 primary to Barack Obama, “she got schlonged.” He also referred to her debate bathroom break as “disgusting.”
_____
4. One of our best-read articles is about how terrorist attacks in the U.S. and Paris have changed the way some American Muslims defend their faith. Many are going beyond denunciations of terrorism to grapple with uncomfortable questions. “We can’t ignore the fact that violent extremists use an interpretation of the very same books and texts that we use,” a Muslim in Chattanooga, Tenn., said.
_____
5. Refresh your memory. You’ll pass all those year-end news quizzes after scrolling through the year in pictures. Sample Q: What month was the photo above taken? A: September.
_____
6. The authorities in China faced rising anger over the collapse of a man-made hill of dirt and construction debris that swamped part of the southern city of Shenzhen. “They were dumping dirt here day and night,” a displaced resident said. “We complained, but the government turned a blind eye.” Dozens of people are still missing.
_____
7. Separately, China sent a warning signal to those who criticize the government. A prominent defense lawyer, Pu Zhiqiang, detained in May 2014, was given a suspended sentence that bars him from practicing law. An Amnesty International researcher said the verdict “effectively shackles one of China’s bravest champions of human rights.”
_____
8. Since October, The Times has been exploring the ramifications of arbitration clauses, a new technique corporations use to deny customers their day in court. The latest in the series: Debt collectors are suing consumers for old — sometimes expired — debt, and then blocking those same people from using the courts to raise a challenge.
_____
9. The family of Sandra Bland, disappointed that no charges will be brought against her jailers, urged prosecutors to press for criminal charges against the Texas trooper who arrested her three days before her death. “It was a false arrest,” the family’s lawyer said. “He used excessive force.” Ms. Bland was found hanged in her jail cell in July. She had been arrested after a confrontation with the trooper during a traffic stop.
_____
10. The weather is just weird. Snow continues to build up in the mountains out West, but in the Northeast, with temperatures this week rising to 70, there’ll be no white Christmas. And storms across the South could bring tornadoes.
_____
11. Lastly, watch the launch and return of an upgraded Falcon 9 rocket at the space center in Cape Canaveral, Fla. The pinpoint landing of a reusable rocket was a first for SpaceX, Elon Musk’s rocket company, and cheers broke out at SpaceX mission control in California.
_____
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to look back? Here’s last night’s briefing.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Everybody pees.
That’s actually the name of a public service campaign by the National Kidney Foundation, and I thought it a needless statement of the obvious until Donald Trump brought me to my senses. Apparently some people think that the laws of urology don’t apply to them. Apparently Trump is in this category.
On Monday he said this of Hillary Clinton’s mid-debate bathroom break: “I know where she went. It’s disgusting. I don’t want to talk about it. No, it’s too disgusting.”
He didn’t specify why. But it’s difficult to find anything indecorous about Clinton’s behavior unless you see it as entirely volitional and utterly controllable — something you do to indulge yourself, something that can be put off for hours or forever, an emblem of your weakness. I guess in Trump’s world, only “low energy” people need to go.
That would make sense, given how fantastical his cosmos is. It’s a place where thousands of Muslims in New Jersey publicly cheer the fall of the World Trade Center; where a stretch of the Potomac River alongside a Virginia golf club of his magically becomes a Civil War site; where his own net worth changes by an order of billions from one moment to the next, in accordance with his need to puff up his chest.
Why wouldn’t it also be a place where people relieve themselves only if they’re losers and they’re intent on a messiness that they can avoid? Maybe Trump really doesn’t pee. Maybe he outsources that to a Mexican immigrant in his employ.
You have to hand it to him: He divines character flaws where no one else could or would. Through his warped lens, there’s shame in John McCain’s imprisonment in Vietnam, horror in Clinton’s use of a toilet, dysfunction in each bead of Marco Rubio’s sweat.
Those last two items underscore his bizarre obsession with, and objection to, body fluids. In early November, Daniel Lippman of Politico noted that Trump had “remarked on Rubio’s perspiration at least eight times in the last seven weeks.” On two of those occasions, Trump suggested that sweating would put Rubio at a disadvantage in negotiations with Vladimir Putin, who would find him too soggy.
The fluids of women in particular rattle Trump. When a lawyer who was questioning him during a 2011 deposition asked for a break so that she could leave the room and pump breast milk for her 3-month-old daughter, he was unhinged.
“You’re disgusting,” he berated her, according to a story in The Times earlier this year by Michael Barbaro and Steve Eder. Then he stormed out of the deposition.
More famously, he reflected on Megyn Kelly’s interrogation of him at the first Republican presidential debate by saying that “you could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.”
Clinton’s bathroom break — or, more precisely, Trump’s revulsion toward it — lies at the intersection of his misogyny and his fastidiousness. He’s a germophobe who once labeled himself “a clean hands freak,” called handshakes a “terrible custom” and said that the obligation to engage in them was one of the great curses of celebrity like his.
Even so, a kidney doctor I know was baffled by his latest outburst.
“Urine is sterile,” Maya Rao, an assistant professor of nephrology at Columbia University, pointed out. “It’s not ‘disgusting.’ Wow. I literally feel like I’m dealing with an elementary-school child and we’re talking about cooties.”
Trump is routinely — and rightly — tagged as a playground bully, but that phrase doesn’t do full justice to his arrested development, his potty mouth and the puerile nature of his vulgar bleats.
He taunts people for being unpopular, for being unattractive, for physical disabilities. The altitude of his debate vocabulary is only millimeters above “I know you are but what am I,” words that he’ll surely utter before this is all over.
On Monday he not only cringed at Clinton’s bathroom visit, he mocked her loss in the 2008 presidential election by substituting a phallic verb for the word defeated.
This, ladies and gentlemen, is your Republican front-runner. It’s probably too late to teach him manners, but maybe not to teach him biology: When you imbibe fluids, you excrete fluids, sometimes through sweat, often through urine.
And while “the typical person goes to the bathroom every three or four hours,” said Matthew Rutman, a urologist at Columbia, that frequency increases for someone who’s older, who’s enduring stress, who’s ingesting caffeine. In other words, for most presidential candidates.
Everybody pees. But it’s the rare man-child who finds that worthy of ridicule. And it’s up to voters: Is that the kind of exceptionalism you want in the White House?
“I’m so tired of this politically correct crap,” Donald Trump told a cheering audience of South Carolina business leaders in September. “That’s called politicians’ speak.”
Opposition to political correctness has always been a weapon brandished by the right against what it sees as “multicultural” liberalism, but Trump has taken this to new extremes.
Trump’s assault on political correctness has even attracted the attention of Kenny Rogers, the country-and-western singer, who appeared slightly embarrassed to admit how drawn he was to Trump:
Trump’s resounding success with the reckless abandonment of the norms of political discourse suggests that he has tapped into a deep reservoir of antipathy to the culture of polite restraint.
Polls show that hostility to political correctness is widespread among voters.
On Oct. 30, Fairleigh Dickinson University released the results of a survey that asked 1,026 adults “Please tell me if you agree or disagree with the following statement: A big problem this country has is being politically correct.”
Over all, 68 percent agreed that political correctness was a big problem, including 62 percent of self-identified Democrats, 68 percent of independents and 81 percent of Republicans. These views cut across racial lines. Seventy-two percent of whites and 61 percent of nonwhites (mostly African-American and Hispanic) describe political correctness as a big problem. A Rasmussen poll in August found that 71 percent of 1,000 adults surveyed agreed with the statement that political correctness was “a problem in America today.”
This poll data indicates that even members of racial and ethnic minorities who are protected by speech codes as well as by the suppression of offensive language are hostile to political correctness.
This does not mean that majorities of all political persuasions agree with Trump’s allegation that Mexican immigrants are “criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc.” — or that voters are comfortable with women being referred to as “fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals,” as Trump put it.
President Obama has been prescient in his critiques of political correctness, but his remarks have been empathetic rather than hostile and have done little to defuse the issue.
In a March 2008 campaign speech at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, Barack Obama, then a candidate, said:
Obama then noted the consequences:
Obama also made a point about the political importance of what is said behind closed doors:
Just this past September, Obama was more explicit in his criticism of political correctness on the nation’s campuses in a speech at the North High School in Des Moines:
Obama’s remarks and Trump’s comments after supporters beat up a Black Lives Matter protester at a rally in Birmingham in November — “Maybe he should have been roughed up” – reflect the gulf between the two men.
The Fairleigh-Dickenson poll suggests that liberals who seek to defend speech codes and trigger warnings, especially in schools and colleges, have ventured onto politically hazardous terrain.
Anecdotal evidence of this tension abounds.
On Jan. 27, Joan Walsh, editor at large of Salon, the liberal web publication, wrote “When ‘political correctness’ hurts.” In it, she attacked Jonathan Chait, who had published a critique of political correctness in New York magazine.
Chait, himself a liberal, wrote:
Walsh’s counterattack:
His “tone,” Walsh wrote,
Salon published 312 comments on Walsh’s critique of Chait. Almost all of them were written by men and women on the left side of the political spectrum
Despite Salon’s progressive credentials, critics of political correctness substantially outnumbered defenders. Here’s a sampling of the majority view:
“AtheistLiberal” wrote: “P.C. culture deserves to be mocked because it is so pathetic. How pointing this out makes Chait look weak is beyond me.” Another asked: “How can we be equal if I’m constantly being told that my white male privilege blinds me and poisons my every thought?”
“GWnNWJ” joined the fray:
The Chait vs. Walsh dispute crystallizes the conflict between those who feel that politically correct norms defy common sense and those who feel that such norms are essential to the empowerment of individuals and groups previously barred from full participation in society.
Regardless of the outcome next November, Trump’s success in raising the issue of political correctness creates uncertainty in the 2016 election.
How many Democratic and independent voters share Trump’s implicit racial antipathy to the Black Lives Matter movement? How many worry that the police have backed off law enforcement in response to the so-called Ferguson effect, with a resulting increase in crime? And how many are offended by the concessions of university administrators to demands for speech codes, trigger warnings, “safe spaces” and even resignations?
Is the number of Democrats and independents who feel strongly about such issues large enough to alter the course of the election?
 The odds still favor a Hillary Clinton victory, but the issue of political correctness is particularly treacherous for the Democratic Party and liberalism.
Since 1964, the Democratic Party has served as the political home of the major rights revolutions — civil and voting rights for racial and ethnic minorities, criminal defendants’ rights, women’s rights, reproductive rights, gay rights, rights to sexual privacy. Each of these revolutions has changed the moral order and norms of permissible language — including, for example, the substitution of humankind for mankind and the now common usage of Ms.
At the same time, for a longer period, liberal ideology has  been the mainstay of support for First Amendment rights and opposition to censorship.
Trump’s chances of winning the nomination remain slim. Even as he has stirred powerful undercurrents in American politics, he has done so in ways that make him unacceptable to the majority of the electorate.
He has highlighted — and profited from — irreconcilable ideological contradictions within both the left and the right. If the American political system were more receptive to such a development, his campaign could have laid the groundwork for the creation of a third party.
Trump has reframed core questions in ways that make them dangerous, both for the candidates and for the country as a whole. He has fractured the Republican coalition and exacerbated fissures in the Democratic Party.
Chances are that the severity of Republican divisions will ease pressure on the Democrats to remedy intraparty conflicts, at least for now. While Trump may push his luck too far and go down in flames, the consequences of his bid — and the incendiary anger he has released — have proved unpredictable throughout this campaign and will remain so until Nov. 8th and probably beyond. In that sense, it doesn’t matter whether he ends up as a winner or his least favorite thing, a loser.
On Tuesday, another think tank issued another analysis of Donald Trump’s tax plan, which calls for a very large tax cut that mostly benefits the wealthiest Americans. The new report, from the Tax Policy Center, found the plan would lose $9.5 trillion in revenue over a decade.
That’s $2.5 trillion less than two other think tanks estimated in the fall. In some sense, $2.5 trillion is a lot of money. But in this case, the difference between $9.5 trillion and $12 trillion doesn’t really matter — and the reason it doesn’t matter has implications for how we think about candidates’ “tax plans,” especially when they come from a candidate who invents Civil War battles and whose own book promotes the virtue of “truthful hyperbole,” a practice known to normal people as “exaggerating.”
Mr. Trump’s plan is purely theoretical. Even if he is elected president, the plan will never become law in its current form, whatever that current form is. Estimates of the plan’s effects are therefore useful only as broad statements of his intentions about taxes — and a proposal for a $9.5 trillion tax cut makes essentially the same broad statement as a proposal for a $12 trillion tax cut.
The Tax Policy Center, a joint project of the center-left Urban Institute and Brookings Institution think tanks, arrived at a lower estimate than either the conservative Tax Foundation or the liberal Citizens for Tax Justice did by making some different assumptions about what exactly Mr. Trump means about his tax cut.
Consider, for example, the discussion on Page 26 of the Tax Policy Center report, in which the authors discuss his proposal for a $25,000 exemption from taxes. Such an exemption might work like the existing standard deduction, which you can take only if you forgo itemized deductions. Or, it could work like a zero percent tax bracket, meaning people could exclude their first $25,000 in income from tax and then take additional deductions. The latter option is much more generous, costing an extra $1.7 trillion over a decade.
The plan description released by the Trump campaign specifies that it is indeed proposing a zero bracket, which is odd, because he’s talked about the need to simplify taxes and limit deductions. The Tax Foundation took the campaign at its word despite this oddness, while the Tax Policy Center assumed Mr. Trump must have meant to propose the standard deduction approach. (It didn’t help that, according to the T.P.C., the campaign ignored all its requests for clarification.)
To say that one of the two think tanks was “right,” you have to assume Mr. Trump has devoted even five seconds to thinking about the details of the plan and will not change his mind about those details in the future. If either of those conditions does not hold, then none of the think tanks are right — or, arguably, they’re all correct, in the same sense that Erwin Schrödinger’s cat was both alive and dead.
To some extent, this is true of any candidate: A tax plan will be mediated through the political process and changing economic circumstances, and therefore should not be taken literally. But precision and literal reading are especially silly exercises when it comes to Mr. Trump.
The key story about Donald Trump’s tax plan is one you can get from any of the three think tank reports: It’s yooooge, its benefits go lopsidedly to rich people, and it would raise the deficit a lot. The rest is details, which are subject to change around Mr. Trump.
After Hillary Clinton attacked Donald J. Trump for proposing to bar Muslims from entering the United States, calling him “ISIS’ best friend,” Mr. Trump’s response Monday night was angry and vulgar. He said her bathroom break during Saturday’s Democratic debate was “disgusting,” and he used a crude sexual reference to describe her defeat by Barack Obama for the 2008 nomination.
Mrs. Clinton’s aides could barely believe their good fortune. Mr. Trump had just given them new fodder to galvanize women behind her candidacy — and they used it.
“We are not responding to Trump,” Mrs. Clinton’s communications director, Jennifer Palmieri, responded to Mr. Trump, almost gleefully, on Twitter. “But everyone who understands the humiliation this degrading language inflicts on all women should,” she added, tacking on the campaign’s girl-power hashtag #ImWithHer.
Behind the scenes, the Clinton campaign mobilized a wide network of female supporters to denounce Mr. Trump as “sexist,” as a practitioner of “pathetic, frat-boy politics,” and as more suited to running for “president of the fourth-grade football team.”
For months, Mrs. Clinton’s strategy was to hang Mr. Trump’s more outrageous pronouncements around the necks of other Republican contenders, seeking to portray the party’s entire field as extreme. But by going after Mr. Trump more assertively now than most of his Republican rivals have dared, Mrs. Clinton is projecting strength, and she is calculating that women, especially young voters, will reward her.
In an interview with The Des Moines Register late Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton said of Mr. Trump, “It’s not the first time he’s demonstrated a penchant for sexism.”
Combativeness, after all, plays into Mrs. Clinton’s campaign theme: The blue “Hillary” signs that blanket her rallies carry the slogan “Fighting for us” in big block letters.
But poking at Mr. Trump is not risk-free. He is unlike any rival Mrs. Clinton has confronted before, and has proved willing to say almost anything.
On Wednesday night, Mr. Trump posted a cryptic warning shot at Mrs. Clinton on Twitter. “Hillary, when you complain about a ‘penchant for sexism,’ who are you referring to,” he wrote. “BE CAREFUL.”
On Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton’s allies continued to join the fray: Emily’s List, which raises money for female candidates who support abortion rights, released an open letter calling on other Republican candidates to denounce Mr. Trump’s remarks.
“You have a chance to step up and do something about Donald Trump,” the letter read. “Most of you are, frankly, a lot smarter than he is. You at least know enough to try to hide your anti-woman policies behind the nice things you say about the women that you know.”
The comments by Mr. Trump in Michigan on Monday night, and the Clinton campaign’s aggressive response, rattled some in the Republican Party, whose leaders urged candidates to show more sensitivity to women after Representative Todd Akin  provoked ire in 2012 for referring to “legitimate rape.”
“It’s not O.K.,” said Katie Packer Gage, a Republican strategist whose firm, Burning Glass Consulting, focuses on improving the party’s standing with women. “Guess what?” she added. “It takes a girl longer to go to the bathroom because they can’t go standing up. Polite society suggests we don’t talk about these things.”
The Clinton campaign’s emboldened new posture toward Mr. Trump grew from months of watching how his Republican rivals struggled to challenge him.
While the other candidates for the Republican presidential nomination tread carefully to avoid antagonizing Mr. Trump’s supporters, for Mrs. Clinton, hitting hard offers immediate benefits.
It shows that she is unafraid of him, Democratic strategists said. And by focusing on Mr. Trump’s more extreme comments, Mrs. Clinton could excite the growing list of constituencies he has directly offended, as well as a broad range of voters who see Mr. Trump as a corrosive presence in the presidential campaign.
“The contrast between her and Donald Trump could not be clearer,” Mrs. Clinton’s campaign manager, Robby Mook, said after Saturday’s debate.
“The more Trump is out there,” he added, “the more these differences are clear, and what’s at stake for the middle class, both in the economy and in defeating ISIS.”
Mrs. Clinton’s assertion in the debate that the Islamic State was “showing videos of Donald Trump insulting Islam and Muslims in order to recruit more radical jihadists” amounted to something of a turning point.
Though journalists and Republicans found no evidence of such videos, Mrs. Clinton’s aides refused to take back her assertion. Mr. Trump, so often called on to admit to a falsehood or apologize, demanded a retraction from Mrs. Clinton.
“Hell, no,” Brian Fallon, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton, replied.
Kellyanne Conway, a Republican pollster who heads a “super PAC” supporting Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, said she saw advantages in Mrs. Clinton’s failure to back up her assertion about militants using Mr. Trump’s comments as a recruitment tool.
“Polls show a majority of Americans believe that Mrs. Clinton is not trustworthy,” Ms. Conway said. “Telling a lie feeds the fire and opens a new front in the character wars.”
She added, “Swing voters won’t care that she took a bathroom break, but they will care that she seems willing to say anything to get elected.”
Republican candidates were quick to defend the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly after Mr. Trump seemed to suggest that she had been unfairly tough on him during a debate because she was menstruating. But so far, party insiders have mainly demurred from criticizing Mr. Trump’s latest boundary-breaking remarks, because publicly defending a Democratic rival, even if it appeases female voters, could prove problematic.
Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky even joined in the mockery. “Carly Fiorina has ZERO trouble making it back from commercial breaks,” he wrote in a Twitter post that Mrs. Fiorina, who has had her own run-ins with Mr. Trump’s gendered attacks, promptly retweeted.
Even some Democrats cautioned that Mrs. Clinton should not get carried away with combativeness toward Mr. Trump.
“Long term, we need to be careful of not unifying the Republicans” against Mrs. Clinton, said Stephanie Cutter, a former senior adviser to President Obama, “when they’re doing a good job of knifing each other.”
Happy holidays! I say this with some trepidation, because Donald Trump has vowed that when he is president, “We’re all going to be saying ‘Merry Christmas’ again.” That was a while ago, during his war on the Starbucks coffee cup design. So very much water has run under the Trumpian bridge since then.
But I’m still trying to figure out exactly how a universal “Merry Christmas” mission would be accomplished. Would there be a “holiday” gag order? Seasonal salutation checks at the border?
This is supposed to be a down period for presidential campaigning, since most of the population is focused on celebrating you-know-what with friends and families. But Trump has given us such a not-normal year that people will be drinking eggnog by the fire and discussing the proper use of the word “schlonged.”
The happiest holiday parties should be with Team Clinton, which clearly believes that going to war with Trump is good for her cause, and that having Trump as the Republican nominee would be even better.
Their current fight began when Hillary, in the last Democratic debate, said ISIS was “going to people showing videos of Donald Trump insulting Islam and Muslims in order to recruit more radical jihadists.” There is actually no specific evidence this is happening, although it certainly seems probable.
For the sake of perfect accuracy, Clinton should have said that ISIS “is bound to start going.” We would dwell on imperfect verb choice longer if PolitiFact hadn’t just announced that out of 77 Trump statements it looked into, 76 percent were rated Mostly False, False or Pants on Fire.
The Trump campaign is a new phenomenon. He mainly flies around on his planes, speaks at big rallies and calls into radio and TV news talk shows. Trump brags about his lack of interest in fund-raising, but he doesn’t seem to be spending much of his own money, either. This is a guy whose great keys to fortune were inheriting real estate and putting his name on things that other people often paid for. Maybe he figures he can become president just by branding it.
After the Hillary diatribes, Trump told a howling audience this week that he hates journalists, and he appeared to be mulling the idea of killing some of them. To be fair, he did conclude by announcing he wouldn’t do that.
For which I presume we’re supposed to be grateful.
Once, long ago, I was the subject of Trumpian ire — I had referred to him as a “thousandaire” — and his response was to send me a copy of the column with a couple of insults written over my picture and a note in which he misspelled the word “too.” So really, he’s not all that threatening. As long as he remains a private citizen, the worst he can do is to throw up an ugly apartment building or hotel in your neighborhood.
But the president thing is no longer a joke. You may have noticed that the competition is starting to fall away. This week Senator Lindsey Graham threw in the towel, or, in polite political-speak, “suspended his candidacy.” Carly Fiorina, Rand Paul and John Kasich seem likely to be consigned to the loser’s section when the Republicans have their next debate.
That brings us down to six people, one of whom is Ben Carson, who’s fading fast. Also Jeb Bush, who was last seen wandering around New Hampshire, reminding people how many times he’s been there. At this point in the political cycle, if you’re a desperate candidate you go somewhere cold and try to get the population to fall in love with you just because they’ve had so many opportunities to shake your trembling, frostbitten hand.
Ted Cruz is doing something along that line in Iowa, where he’s ahead. But he’s also moved into a clear second place in the polls, terrifying the party establishment and many Republican billionaire donors, who regard Cruz as an obnoxious self-promoting egomaniac. There is nothing the oligarch class hates more than egomaniacs.
The big donors appear to be particularly fond of Senator Marco Rubio, the attractive, 44-year-old Floridian who has done very well in the debates. The other candidates find Rubio’s popularity irritating, particularly since he hasn’t been campaigning all that hard. Or doing anything else, it appears. Trump called Rubio a sweaty underachiever “with no money, zero.” This is, if nothing else, a campaign where the insults are meeting a new norm. Thanks almost entirely to the front-runner.
Donald J. Trump, the poll leader for the last five months in the Republican presidential race, is about to find out whether he has permanently changed the rules of politics, or if some of those old standards still linger.
His long-promised “next phase” defined by new spending, such as a wave of television commercials, has so far failed to materialize, week after week. His advisers have not revealed the existence of any pollsters on their staff or any advertising team. He has no real research operation to examine his own vulnerabilities or those of his opponents and, based on Federal Election Commission filings, little in the way of a voter contact operation to identify and turn out his supporters.
Regardless of how he fares in next year’s state caucuses and primaries, Mr. Trump has established himself as a political force, pushing Republicans toward a bellicose brand of populism that will linger even if he is not their standard-bearer.
But he has conspicuously opted against spending in conventional ways that could fortify his lead or harm weak rivals, discarding the playbook that winning candidates have used for many decades.
“On any given day, Trump can dominate the news coverage of the entire race,” said Craig Robinson, a former Republican Party of Iowa executive director who now publishes the Iowa Republican website. “I can see how such power might make a campaign think that they don’t need to spend money on costly TV ads and direct mail.”
This strategy has so far not stopped Mr. Trump, whose campaign message is that he is a winner and who has shown a talent for attacking his rivals in new and unusual ways, from drawing 30 percent to 40 percent in national polls. He will most likely enter the election year atop the Republican race.
But it may have left him less strong than he could be in Iowa, where Senator Ted Cruz of Texas has taken the lead, according to a Des Moines Register-Bloomberg Politics survey, and in crucial early states that vote immediately afterward, like New Hampshire and South Carolina. And it could make it harder for him to survive an Iowa loss.
Mr. Robinson said Mr. Trump had hurt himself in Iowa by not augmenting his news presence with a parallel effort to push his message through ads, mailers and phone banks. “Such an effort would have also inoculated him from attack,” he said.
If Mr. Trump’s team had researched Mr. Cruz’s weaknesses, for example, then incorporated them in Mr. Trump’s heavily covered speeches and ceaseless television appearances, as well as in paid advertising, he may have been able to pre-empt or at least slow the senator’s rise there. Mr. Trump does not appear to have used a pollster to target his message or identify pockets of support, except for one survey early on.
“While leading in the polls for months and not spending any real money on advertising is novel, the Trump team needs to turn on the spending for a real advertising and turnout operation or prepare to lose Iowa and New Hampshire,” said Scott Reed, the top political strategist for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. Trump’s aides routinely point to the fact that he has led the polls while the person whose allies have spent the most, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, is registering in the single digits.
Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, declined to discuss advertising strategy, but he said that the candidate had “unlimited resources and will use those to ensure his message on how to make America great again gets to as many voters as possible.”
In the past, Mr. Trump has questioned the wisdom and judgment of candidates who spent lavishly from their own pockets. He mused to Fortune magazine about the business acumen of Steve Forbes for spending so much of his own money on his own presidential efforts, and told friends in New York City he could not fathom why Michael R. Bloomberg, the three-term former mayor, had funded his own campaigns.
In 2000, when Mr. Trump was toying with a possible third-party presidential candidacy, he had a contract with the motivational speaker Tony Robbins to make $1 million for giving speeches at some of Mr. Robbins’s seminars. Fortune reported that Mr. Trump had engineered his political events so that he would give speeches in the same cities.
“It’s very possible that I could be the first presidential candidate to run and make money on it,” Mr. Trump told the magazine.
In the most recent period for which there are records, the third quarter of the year, Mr. Trump raised just under $4 million from donors. He contributed only $100,779 of his own money in that quarter, and has lent roughly $2 million since the start of the campaign.
But some of the money Mr. Trump’s campaign spends is on reimbursing him: His largest expense in the last filing period, $723,000, was on a company he owns, Tag Air, which controls the fleet of aircraft he uses to fly to all his events.
Mr. Lewandowski, the campaign manager, has said that the campaign had hired a Florida-based advertising firm. He added, almost proudly, that it was not a politically oriented company, in keeping with the outsider image that Mr. Trump presents. He also said that Mr. Trump was prepared to spend $100 million on a conventional television effort if needed. Then the campaign began considering other ad makers, including Rick Reed, who helped make the famous Swift Boat Veterans for Truth spots against the Democratic nominee John Kerry in the 2004 presidential campaign.
But still no Trump television ads have emerged.
Beyond spending just over $200,000 on a radio advertising buy last month, Mr. Trump has not made any television reservations. For a candidate fond of a deal, Mr. Trump’s resistance to put down cash on commercials ahead of time could wind up costing him more than necessary.
By waiting, he has consigned himself to pay a higher rate if and when he does buy television time. Political advertising on broadcast and cable is substantially more expensive when it is bought at the last minute, even though candidates are charged lower rates than “super PACs.”
What is more, the airwaves are considerably cluttered by now, with little available television time remaining. Under equal-time provisions, stations would have to find ways to accommodate him.
“Trump has already made history by pulling out to a large lead solely on the basis of free media coverage of his campaign,” said the political consultant Roger Stone, who left the campaign in August but has remained a supporter of Mr. Trump.
But Mr. Stone cautioned that there was a difference between “persuasion” and “turnout,” and that the power of advertising, mailing and old-fashioned phone calls should not be discounted. “I do think he’s going to have to use some of the traditional tools to turn his voters out,” he said.
DONALD J. TRUMP has said and done a lot of outlandish, polarizing things in 2015 — running for president first among them.
The Republican candidate has led in most national polls for five months. Everyone else is a pathetic loser and we need him, as his hat promises, to make America great again. That’s how Mr. Trump puts it anyway, in dark rhetoric that seems to be an ideal match for this moment.
Almost three-quarters of adults in the United States use social networking sites, and more than half of Facebook and Twitter users get their news through those sites. News consumption has gotten both faster and more siloed by ideology.
2015 was the Year of Trump because he is the perfect candidate for our viral age. His success tells us a lot about the nature of what goes viral and how it reflects our beliefs and our fears.
“What goes viral is what we think is remarkable,” Jeff Hemsley, a professor of information studies at Syracuse University and a co-author of the book “Going Viral,” said. “In a way, it represents what we as a society think is worth talking about.”
In 2015, we found Mr. Trump and the ideas he represents worth talking about. He has more Facebook likes and Twitter followers than any other candidate in the field. According to Google Trends, he is the most searched candidate of 2015 by far and he has gotten significantly more attention on television than his Republican rivals.
Virality can be about sheer news value, but emotion also plays a big role in determining what gets shared. If we think about a given news story as a disease waiting to be passed along, human emotion is its most common vector. And some emotions are more contagious.
Richard L. Rapson, a professor of psychological history at the University of Hawaii, has studied virality through the lens of emotional contagion. He found that the most shareable moments come when a story lights up the deepest recesses of our minds.
“Hate, fear of the other, anger — they come directly from the nonconscious, and that’s why they’re so easy to evoke,” Professor Rapson said.
Jonah Berger and Katherine L. Milkman, professors at the University of Pennsylvania’s Wharton School of Business, similarly found that news stories were more likely to be shared if they elicited emotions like awe, anger and anxiety.
So when Mr. Trump says that Mexicans are rapists and killers, or that the government should register Muslims in the United States in a mandatory database system, people hit the share button. And as long as stories about Mr. Trump are receiving as many eyeballs as possible, it doesn’t really matter if people are reacting negatively to him. In fact, it probably helps his popularity.
That Mr. Trump is both volatile in nature and allergic to nuance is part of his viral success. Humans use mental shortcuts to process information quickly while conserving brain power. This means that we often don’t think critically about the information we’re receiving before sharing it with others.
Unsurprisingly, that can mean that things that are not true go viral. But lies, like fear, can maintain a powerful grasp on the human mind.
“Once we see something and accept it as true, it’s really, really hard to falsify the belief,” said Rosanna Guadagno, a social psychologist at the University of Texas at Dallas. “I’ve occasionally spread something that turned out to be false, and the sad thing is, I’m still trying to scrub that out of my memory as something I’ve accepted as real.”
And people with certain political leanings may be more predisposed to sharing. According to Bradley M. Okdie, a social psychologist at Ohio State University at Newark, conservatives are more likely to share a given piece of content than liberals are, especially if it provokes a negative emotion.
“Conservatives tend to be a lot more reactive to negative information and they also tend to be a lot more insular in nature, and they also tend to have less tolerance for ambiguity,” Professor Okdie said. “Conservatives would prefer a negative concrete statement to a slightly positive, uncertain statement.”
With his us vs. them invective and his refusal to denounce hate-filled speech from some of his supporters, Mr. Trump is an echo chamber for certain corners of the far right, as evinced by his popularity with white nationalists and the so-called alt-right movement of mostly online activists.
“Donald Trump is telling them something they already believe, and they’re sharing it because they want other people to believe it too,” Professor Hemsley, who studies virality, said.
Mr. Trump has no qualms about looking or sounding “unpresidential” — hence the tacky hats, Twitter rants and debate performances worthy of W.W.E. “SmackDown.”
He is the living embodiment of the saying “All publicity is good publicity.” In his 1987 book “The Art of the Deal,” he showed just how canny his strategy of being the most outlandish person in the room was.
“The point is that if you are a little different, or a little outrageous, or if you do things that are bold or controversial, the press is going to write about you,” he wrote. “Even a critical story, which may be hurtful personally, can be very valuable to your business.”
It’s almost as if he understood the concept of Internet virality before a single cat ever LOLed.
EXETER, N.H. — Jeb Bush practically shouted his stump speech here, slamming Donald J. Trump as a “chaotic candidate” who “loves the chaos because it’s all about him.” He knocked President Obama and Hillary Clinton for believing that “containing ISIS is actually a strategy.”
“If it’s a strategy,” Mr. Bush told his rapt crowd last week, “it’s a failed one.”
When he was done with his forceful and freewheeling pitch, a man stood and asked the question that seemed to hang over the event like a New England fog:
“How can you bring the passion that you’re showing today more broadly to your campaign?”
Mr. Bush is trying to defeat 11 Republicans, but a month before the Iowa caucuses, he is also trying to run against the damning four-syllable caricature Mr. Trump first lobbed at him four months ago, of a “low-energy” candidate who does not have the will to win the presidency.
He has been pounding out the miles in early-voting states, especially New Hampshire; held his own in the latest debate; and is generally impressing people who hear him speak. But the insult is still nagging at voters who turn out to see Mr. Bush, and popping up in Republican focus groups, with voters who parrot back Mr. Trump’s very words — “low energy” — or just wonder, generally, if Mr. Bush is up to the job of leading the nation.
“I think he’s timid,” said Jeffrey Clay, 57, a retired teacher and Air Force veteran, who attended a recent Bush event in Alton, N.H., and was trying to decide whether to support Mr. Bush, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey or Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio in the state’s primary on Feb. 9.
“I think in our world today, it’s going to take a president who’s not timid, who’s going to speak with a robust voice or a robust attitude,” he added. “I’m looking to see a little more of that.”
Mr. Clay, who said he thought highly of Mr. Bush’s time as governor of Florida, added, almost apologetically, “I’m not trying to be critical.”
The low-energy label has so dogged Mr. Bush that his campaign strategy, once predicated on his political pedigree, policy mastery and stewardship of what was the nation’s fourth most populous state, now seems almost exclusively built around shedding it.
His team has been showing voters just how hard Mr. Bush is willing to work by having him grind through a packed schedule of public events — giving speech after speech, answering questions for nearly an hour and sticking around to shake every hand and grin for every selfie.
Mr. Bush has also tried to summon vigor with gentle profanity (think “damn”), deadpanned that he ate nails for breakfast and even joked about his energy levels. (At an early debate, asked to select a Secret Service code name, Mr. Bush chose “Eveready,” before saying, “It’s very high energy, Donald.”)
Responding to the man in Exeter, Mr. Bush said: “I bring it every day. This is who I am. I’m going to outcampaign people, I can promise you that — I’m a hard-working guy.”
“Don’t worry about the energy thing,” he concluded. “I can outwork everybody running and I’m doing it.”
In fact, Mr. Bush was in Exeter for one of four town-hall-style events he had scheduled on a single Saturday, a feat intended as much to demonstrate stamina and resolve as to get him in front of as many voters as possible before the holiday break.
He is also trying to show his potential by being the first Republican candidate to consistently attack Mr. Trump, calling him a “jerk” unfit for the presidency. Mr. Bush’s campaign and Right to Rise, the “super PAC” supporting him, have begun highlighting in television ads and online videos the idea that Mr. Bush is the only candidate strong enough to stand up to Mr. Trump.
Mr. Bush’s team rejects the notion that Mr. Trump’s attack has devastated their candidate, saying the insult is old news. “Donald is a lazy candidate with so little interest in the job that he gets his national security information from ‘the shows,’” said Tim Miller, a Bush spokesman. “Jeb is going to continue to outwork him all the way to the White House.”
Mr. Trump first made the remark in the summer, early enough to make it the first impression many voters would have of Mr. Bush.
“Jeb Bush is a low-energy person,” he said  on Aug. 19, when they were holding New Hampshire town-hall-style events about 20 miles apart. “For him to get things done is very hard.”
Mr. Trump has said even he was impressed with his insult’s pithy memorability. “Yeah, that’s a once in a decade,” he told Business Insider.
Mr. Bush’s poll numbers, meanwhile, continued the slide they had begun in July; he has been stagnating in the mid-single digits since September.
And the low-energy moniker continues to follow Mr. Bush around, even as Mr. Trump has cooked up new ways to cut him down, recently calling him “an embarrassment to the Bush family” on “Meet the Press” and labeling him “A basket case!” on Twitter.
Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster, conducted a focus group of voters during the most recent Republican debate in Las Vegas, in which Mr. Bush performed well during a feisty exchange with Mr. Trump. When Mr. Bush and Mr. Trump began to tussle, Mr. Luntz said, the participants in the focus group started “laughing hysterically” and saying, “Oh, there’s the low-energy guy.”
“They’re repeating Trump’s exact words,” Mr. Luntz said. “He is absolutely qualified and capable to be president, and yet no one respects his candidacy — and Donald Trump is the reason why.”
Even Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta, could not resist the two-word jab. “Latest from @JebBush: very low energy,” he posted on Twitter last week.
Most troublesome for the Bush campaign, however, is that the perception of Mr. Bush as a sleepy candidate is still turning up on the ground.
Don Chase, 68, an independent from Stratham, N.H., is still deciding among several Republican candidates. He saw Mr. Bush in Exeter and said he thought he was not higher in the polls because he had struggled to capture voter and news media attention. “I think he comes on soft and he needs to come on a lot harder, and that’s all modulated by what Trump does,” Mr. Chase said.
But there is at least some evidence that Mr. Bush’s high-energy assault against the low-energy label is starting to work. Michael Kittredge, 61, from St. Johnsbury, Vt., recently attend a Bush event in New Hampshire, just across his state’s border.
After watching Mr. Bush speak and answer questions for nearly an hour and a half, Mr. Kittredge said he came away impressed. “I did think he was too low energy until I saw him tonight,” Mr. Kittredge said. “And I thought his demeanor was just fine, so in person, it makes a big difference.”
For years, President Bill Clinton was the best friend Donald J. Trump always hoped to have.
When scandal engulfed Mr. Clinton’s White House, Mr. Trump leapt to the president’s defense. “He’s probably got the toughest skin I’ve ever seen, and I think he’s a terrific guy,” Mr. Trump told CNN.
Then there were Mr. Trump’s pitches to the former president to settle in a gilded Trump building in Manhattan when he and Hillary Clinton left the White House. They moved to Westchester instead. His overtures for them to vacation at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., were also rebuffed. The Clintons preferred the Dominican Republic.
When Mr. Clinton had trouble joining a conservative Westchester golf club, Mr. Trump boasted that he welcomed the former president to a newly built Trump National Golf Club, a five-minute drive from the Clintons’ Chappaqua, N.Y., home.
“He’s a great gentleman, a good golfer and a wonderful guy,” the real estate developer said of Mr. Clinton, who, in reality, is a so-so golfer known for taking mulligans.
In the past week, any semblance of a friendship between Mr. Trump and Bill Clinton came to an ugly end as the former president and his wife’s presidential campaign found themselves in a muddy battle over sexism with the Republican candidate who has upended this election cycle with his insults and attacks.
“If Hillary thinks she can unleash her husband, with his terrible record of women abuse, while playing the women’s card on me, she’s wrong!” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Monday.
The criticism of Mr. Clinton’s personal life comes as Mrs. Clinton is increasingly relying on the former president, mentioning him in almost every speech as she praises his economic record. But Mr. Trump’s attacks on him are now rippling through the race, with other candidates and even a prominent newspaper columnist suggesting that Mr. Clinton’s sexual history is fair game.
“This works for Trump because it reinforces what his most ardent supporters believe to be his greatest strength,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican communications strategist. “He will say things that no one else will say but that need to be said.”
On Monday, Mr. Clinton will hold two organizing events for Mrs. Clinton in New Hampshire — his first solo outing on the campaign trail in a state where he remains widely popular and where polls show Mrs. Clinton slightly trailing Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.
Mr. Trump’s turn against the former president started last week when Mrs. Clinton, in response to Mr. Trump’s use of a crude sexual reference to describe her loss to Barack Obama in 2008, accused him of having a “penchant for sexism.”
On Saturday, Mr. Trump said on Twitter: “Hillary Clinton has announced that she is letting her husband out to campaign but HE’S DEMONSTRATED A PENCHANT FOR SEXISM, so inappropriate!”
He went further on Tuesday, saying that in Mr. Clinton’s political career, “there were certainly a lot of abuse of women, and you look at whether it’s Monica Lewinsky or Paula Jones or many of them.”
In response to Mr. Trump’s latest onslaught, Mrs. Clinton’s campaign said in a statement that “Hillary Clinton won’t be bullied” or “distracted by the slings he throws at her and former President Clinton.” A spokesman for Mr. Clinton declined to comment.
Mr. Trump’s tactics could backfire. Mrs. Clinton had some of her highest approval ratings ever after revelations that Mr. Clinton had a relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, a 22-year-old White House intern.
This month at a New Hampshire town hall, a young woman asked Mrs. Clinton about several women who alleged they were sexually harassed by Mr. Clinton.
“You say that all rape victims should be believed,” the woman said. “Should we believe them as well?”
Mrs. Clinton did not hesitate. “Well, I would say that everybody should be believed at first until they are disbelieved based on evidence,” she said, with an awkward smile, as the crowd applauded.
Still, the issue seems to be echoing, at least among her detractors. Other Republican candidates, including Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson, have followed Mr. Trump’s lead, saying Mr. Clinton’s history is a legitimate criticism, though Mrs. Fiorina said she doubted voters would care. Mr. Clinton, after all, is 69 years old, and the Lewinsky scandal happened nearly two decades ago.
The Washington Post columnist Ruth Marcus has been critical of Mr. Trump but on Tuesday wrote that she agreed with him that Mr. Clinton’s past is relevant to his wife’s campaign. “Trump has smeared women because of their looks,” she wrote. “Clinton has preyed on them.”
Mr. Trump has been the most direct in his attacks on Mr. Clinton, but Republicans, concerned about the party’s declining appeal to women, have long considered using the former president’s personal life and Mrs. Clinton’s response to the women who alleged extramarital affairs.
Stuart Stevens, a Republican operative and Mitt Romney’s chief strategist in his 2012 presidential campaign, said the way the Clinton operation disparaged women who complained about the president’s behavior in the 1990s “would be all but disqualifying in a Democratic primary” nowadays.
During Mr. Clinton’s 1992 campaign, Betsey Wright, a close aide, coined the term “bimbo eruptions” in describing rumors of extramarital affairs involving the candidate. According to White House-era documents from Diane D. Blair, a close friend of Mrs. Clinton’s who died in 2000, the first lady had referred to Ms. Lewinsky as “a narcissistic loony toon.”
Until last week, Mr. Trump had hardly uttered a negative word about Mr. Clinton. In 1999, he said the president had been treated unfairly for his relationship with Ms. Lewinsky. His criticism, according to an interview with The New York Times at the time, was the president’s choice of paramour: “It was Monica! I mean, terrible choice.”
Mr. Trump has been a donor to the Bill, Hillary & Chelsea Clinton Foundation and to Mrs. Clinton’s Senate campaign. While a senator from New York, Mrs. Clinton and her husband attended Mr. Trump’s 2005 wedding to his third wife, the Slovenian model Melania Knauss, held in a $42 million ballroom at his Mar-a-Lago estate decorated to resemble Versailles. (Mr. and Mrs. Trump were not invited to Chelsea Clinton’s 2010 wedding.)
“He liked them and their star quality, and he respected a lot of things Bill Clinton did as president,” said Edward G. Rendell, a former governor of Pennsylvania who is close to the Clintons. “That’s all out the window now,” he added.
In an email, Mr. Trump said his friendship with Mr. Clinton was strictly business. “It was my obligation to get along with all politicians,” he wrote. “And I did it better than anybody.”
He said he did not recall whether the Clintons had stayed at Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach. “If they did want to stay there, or stayed there, it only shows that they have good taste,” he added.
Some have suggested that Mr. Trump, whose own affair with Marla Maples and his split from his first wife, Ivana Trump, were splashed across tabloids, is an imperfect messenger on the issue of fidelity.
Mr. Trump also opens himself up to criticism about his own personal life, including allegations that he assaulted Ivana Trump, which he has denied and which the former Mrs. Trump recently backed away from.
Mr. Trump, however, said he was “the perfect messenger because I fully understand life and all its wrinkles,” and reiterated his claim that Mrs. Clinton had bullied some of the women who accused her husband of improprieties.
Republican opponents have highlighted Mr. Trump’s previously fawning comments about Mr. Clinton. Back in 1999, Mr. Trump expressed admiration for Mr. Clinton’s retail political skills, telling CNBC: “I wish I could be like that. I just can’t.”
And a couple of years later, he echoed that comment, recalling an anecdote about watching Mr. Clinton work a crowd.
“He shook hands with everybody out there,” said Mr. Trump, who is regarded as something of a germaphobe. “And some of these people had filthy hands.”
ROCHESTER, N.H. — There are few titles in American democracy as privileged as “undeclared New Hampshire voter.”
Presidential candidates obsess over them. Operatives tailor advertisements to their whims. And in an election season more volatile than any campaign is likely to have imagined, the state’s electoral free agents here are beginning to grapple with how to exercise their unusual power to control the fates of candidates in either party.
About 40 percent of the New Hampshire electorate is independent (officially called undeclared) — a greater voter share than either party can claim — and is allowed to participate in either primary.
And their choices could be decisive for two very different candidates, Donald J. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders, who are counting on independent support to win the state.
Early indications suggest that independents are being drawn to the turbulent Republican race, where the large number of candidates can give these voters an outsize role in the outcome of the Feb. 9 primary and shape the contest beyond.
Janet Doyle, an undeclared voter from Portsmouth, said she usually voted Democratic. But she suggested a sort of civic duty this time to participate in the Republican primary instead.
“It’s where New Hampshire can make the most difference this year,” she said, ticking off the names of some moderate Republicans she might support, including Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio and Jeb Bush. “Anything to stop Trump.”
Mr. Sanders, desperate to broaden his appeal beyond the left, has taken pains to court the undeclared, particularly because independents have often provided significant support to candidates who were not the party favorite. Bill Bradley and Barack Obama won the undeclared vote in their primaries in 2000 and 2008, but lost among registered Democrats and wound up narrowly losing to Al Gore and Hillary Clinton in the state.
Tad Devine, a senior adviser to Mr. Sanders, said the campaign was courting independents with mailings and through other voter outreach efforts in part by highlighting issues like campaign finance reform and the power of special interests in Washington, which the campaign expects to resonate particularly with independents.
Neil Levesque, the executive director of the New Hampshire Institute of Politics and Political Library at Saint Anselm College, noted a recent Sanders ad to hit the airwaves, titled “Rock” and narrated by a dairy farmer from Vermont, Mr. Sanders’s home state. (“Bernie cannot be bought out by big money,” the farmer says, adding, “He’s a rock.”)
“There’s not a lot of substance as far as liberal-leaning policies,” Mr. Levesque said. “It’s about the fact that he’s independent, like the farmer.”
But many voters see the Republican primary as more competitive and intend to take that party’s ballot, according to recent interviews with two dozen independents.
In 2008, the last time the state hosted two competitive primaries, about 530,000 ballots were cast, with about 197,000 of them coming from independents.
No one has ever won a New Hampshire primary without a plurality of his or her own party’s voters. But with such a large Republican field this time, if one candidate amassed a large number of independents and a smaller but healthy share of party members, victory could be possible — especially if the candidate needed only 20 percent to 25 percent of the total vote to prevail.
“It’s more likely that you could win due to undeclared voters in a big field than if you had three people running,” said Andrew E. Smith, the director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center and an author of “The First Primary,” a new book about the New Hampshire contest.
Russ Miles, an independent from Rochester, said he agreed more with Mr. Trump than with other candidates on major issues like immigration, though he was uncomfortable with the candidate’s temperament.
“I think about voting for him, but I wish he’d calm down a bit,” Mr. Miles said.
Many independents like Mr. Trump: In a CNN/WMUR poll this month, 34 percent of undeclared voters who plan to vote in the Republican primary said they supported Mr. Trump, compared with 16 percent for Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and 7 percent each for Jeb Bush, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Mr. Kasich. Some political analysts attributed Mr. Trump’s high numbers to his well-known name, because these voters tend not to think about politics or their candidate options until closer to the primary.
Others are looking elsewhere. Barbara Novak, who voted for Mr. Obama in 2008, said she would vote Republican this time because she wanted to help Mr. Christie’s chances to be the party’s presidential nominee. Ms. Novak said she was concerned about national security and was not certain she would vote for Mr. Christie in the general election in November, but would like the option.
“He’s very forceful, and by next fall, I think that’s exactly the kind of leader we may need,” said Ms. Novak, of Hampton Beach.
Fifteen of the last 20 winners of New Hampshire primaries went on to become their parties’ nominees. One who did not, Mrs. Clinton, who won the state in 2008 but lost the nomination to Mr. Obama, is hoping to impress independents by focusing keenly on local issues like the heroin epidemic and mental health care needs.
“Independents are hugely important to the primary and they want to be heard, and Hillary has been listening to them closely,” said Jennifer Palmieri, a Clinton spokeswoman.
Some independents say they are fed up with the political establishment. A few mischief makers have pledged to vote for candidates they generally dislike — leading a conservative, for instance, to support Mr. Sanders in a bid to damage Mrs. Clinton’s standing in the general election.
More often, though, undeclared moderates have begun to reckon with their responsibility as a powerful, pliable check in an unpredictable election year. And their growing numbers suggest their potential to shape the outcome in New Hampshire.
In 2000, undeclared voters cast about 29 percent of the 240,000 Republican votes and 27 percent of the 157,000 Democratic votes, according to data provided by the secretary of state’s office. But by 2008, about 42 percent of the 289,000 Democratic ballots cast came from undeclared voters — compared with about 31 percent among Republicans.
“They tend to go where the action is,” said Thomas D. Rath, a former state attorney general and a longtime Republican strategist who is advising Mr. Kasich.
But the fickle nature of many independents can make them difficult to court.
At a rally in Rochester, N.H., this month, where Mr. Rubio spoke passionately about his opposition to abortion rights, he drew applause from many in the audience but alienated Christie Cole of Newmarket, an independent who had been thinking of supporting him.
“I believe it is a woman’s choice, not a government ‘issue’ for a male to decide on,” Ms. Cole, 21, said.
As Mr. Rubio posed for photographs with voters after the rally, Dave Crossan and his wife, Marilyn, watched him with mixed feelings. They say that his Cuban roots could help attract Hispanic voters who are crucial to winning the presidency, but they dislike that he has skipped many votes in the Senate. They also admire Mr. Kasich, but are torn about his lack of traction in the polls. Mr. Trump and Carly Fiorina do not seem like winners to them.
So Mr. Crossan may vote for Mr. Sanders, if only to make Mrs. Clinton sweat.
“I don’t want Bernie Sanders to be president,” he said, “but I’ll vote for him anyway.”
In the six months since announcing his run for president, Donald J. Trump has defied political gravity, seeing his popularity among Republicans rise despite — or because of — a steady flow of provocative policies and barbs that would sink most traditional politicians. For the billionaire developer, what has not killed his candidacy has made it only stronger.
Here is a look back at Mr. Trump’s most memorable moments of 2015.
Political prognosticators thought that Mr. Trump was bluffing until he actually said he was running for president. But once he made it official in June, there was no looking back. Mr. Trump kicked off his campaign with controversy, making the construction of a wall and the deportation of millions of undocumented immigrants a centerpiece of his platform.
“They’re bringing drugs,” Mr. Trump said during his announcement. “They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”
Senator John McCain might no longer be the darling of the Republican Party, but few would question his war hero status after his years of captivity and torture during the Vietnam War. However, at an event for evangelical Christians in Iowa in July, Mr. Trump begged to differ.
“He’s not a war hero,” Mr. Trump said. “He’s a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.”
Mr. Trump’s White House bid was said to be doomed.
After the first Republican presidential debate in August, Mr. Trump felt that Megyn Kelly, the Fox News anchor who moderated the event, had treated him unfairly. He ridiculed her on social media that night and later seemed to suggest during an interview with CNN that she had treated him poorly because she was menstruating.
“You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever,” said Mr. Trump, who later said that he was referring to her ears.
Mr. Trump stirred accusations of sexism again in September when Rolling Stone magazine quoted him disparaging the appearance of Carly Fiorina, a rival for the Republican nomination. “Look at that face!” he said in the interview.
“Would anyone vote for that?” he said. “Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?”
Mrs. Fiorina got a brief bounce in the polls after she deftly confronted Mr. Trump at the next debate.
Republicans often distance themselves from the legacy of former President George W. Bush, but one thing that remains taboo is blaming him for the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Except for Mr. Trump. Some Republicans said he sounded like a Democrat in October when he suggested that the attacks were Mr. Bush’s fault.
“When you talk about George Bush, I mean, say what you want, the World Trade Center came down during his time,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with Bloomberg. Jeb Bush, a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s, defended his brother’s record.
Under pressure in Iowa, Mr. Trump seemed to be looking for ways to turn off evangelical Christians who were becoming enamored with Ben Carson, the soft-spoken retired neurosurgeon. Mr. Trump took the religious road, bringing up Mr. Carson’s faith as a Seventh-day Adventist and wondering aloud whether Iowans could see themselves supporting him. “I’m Presbyterian,” Mr. Trump said at a rally in Florida in November.
“Boy, that’s down the middle of the road, folks, in all fairness,” he said. “I mean, Seventh-day Adventist, I don’t know about.”
He went on to regale voters with stories of Mr. Carson’s stabbing a friend as a child and accused him of being too tired to be president. But Mr. Trump has largely left him alone as his poll numbers have declined.
Mr. Trump’s most controversial proposal came in early December when, in the wake of the attacks in Paris and in San Bernardino, Calif., he announced a plan to bar all foreign Muslims from entering the United States.
The idea was compared to the Chinese Exclusion Act and to Japanese internment camps — some of the darkest blemishes in American history — and critics called Mr. Trump a racist and a fascist.
Denouncing political correctness, he said, “Until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses, our country cannot be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad, and have no sense of reason or respect for human life.”
Separately, Mr. Trump called for more rigorous surveillance of American Muslims and mosques and insisted that Muslims in New Jersey cheered after attacks of Sept. 11 — a claim that he has been unable to prove.
For months, Donald J. Trump has used his role as a provocateur to attract attention and high poll numbers in the Republican presidential campaign. But now some of his statements are being used for another purpose: changing the jury selection process for a man accused in a terrorism case in New York.
A defense lawyer for the man claims that Mr. Trump’s call for a ban on Muslims’ entering the United States will make it harder to find unbiased jurors when her client goes to trial next month.
The defendant, Minh Quang Pham, was extradited to the United States this year from Britain and faces trial in February on charges of providing material support to Al Qaeda’s affiliate in Yemen and on other counts. He is also a practicing Muslim, his lawyer has said in court papers.
“The defense believes that it will be difficult, if not impossible, to seat a truly impartial New York City jury in the current climate of Islamophobia and hatred of Muslims,” the lawyer, Bobbi C. Sternheim, wrote in a court filing.
Ms. Sternheim also cited the recent terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif. As for Mr. Trump, she focused on his call for “a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States,” and his assertion last month that in Jersey City, “thousands and thousands of people were cheering” as the World Trade Center collapsed.
“His statements have become a rallying cry inciting public fear of Muslims and the desire to ostracize and marginalize followers of Islam,” Ms. Sternheim wrote.
Mr. Trump later clarified his statements, saying his proposal would exclude only foreign Muslims, not those who are United States citizens and who seek to return to this country after traveling abroad.
In the past, lawyers in terrorism cases in New York have argued that their clients cannot receive a fair trial because of pretrial publicity. 
In one 2002 case, a lawyer argued that his client, who had alleged terrorism connections, could not get a fair trial in New York so soon after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The lawyer, requesting a change of venue, cited a “tidal wave of public passion” in the city. The judge rejected the request, saying the “tidal wave is of national, not just local, proportions.”
The government says that the current defendant, Mr. Pham, who is in his early 30s, went to Yemen in 2010, where he swore an oath of allegiance to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. He received training from the group and provided it with “expert advice and assistance in photography and graphic design of media,” including helping prepare its online propaganda publication, Inspire, the authorities say.
Ms. Sternheim did not ask in her motion that Mr. Pham’s case be moved, but she argued that the jury selection process in Federal District Court in Manhattan was “inadequate to screen” potential jurors for bias and prejudice.
The longstanding practice has been for defense lawyers and prosecutors to propose questions to the judge, and the judge alone to handle the questioning.
Ms. Sternheim proposed that the judge, Alison J. Nathan, allow each side 30 minutes of additional questioning, to be conducted by the lawyers and prosecutors themselves. That would help in “rooting out prejudice and bias” among the prospective jurors, Ms. Sternheim wrote.
In a response, the office of Preet Bharara, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, wrote that it was unnecessary to deviate from the court’s traditional practice, which it said had been successfully used in terrorism trials for years.
The government also cited the risk that a lawyer, addressing prospective jurors directly, might ask a “legally improper question,” or that through the process, jurors might “establish a rapport with a particular attorney.”
“The court’s questioning of the jurors maintains the jurors’ role as neutral arbiters of the facts,” Mr. Bharara’s office wrote. The government’s filing did not address or even mention Mr. Trump’s statements.
Judge Nathan has not yet ruled on the defense’s request.
Ms. Sternheim, in a separate court filing, has suggested a list of questions to be posed to prospective jurors, including one that notes that Mr. Pham, who was born in Vietnam, had lived in Britain since childhood, converted to Islam and is a practicing Muslim.
“Is there anything about his national origin or religion that would affect your ability to be fair and impartial to him?” the proposed question asks.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Trump did not respond to a request for comment. Mr. Bharara’s office and Ms. Sternheim had no comment on the case.
BOSTON  The atmosphere was terrific and so was the game, a ragged but thrilling winter afternoon of pond hockey that just happened to be played in the country’s oldest and one of its most beloved major league baseball stadiums.
Marco Sturm’s goal gave the Boston Bruins a 2-1 overtime victory over the Philadelphia Flyers in the third Winter Classic, which wound up as another big hit for the N.H.L.’s New Year’s Day outdoor game.
“That’s probably what I dreamed of this morning, to score in overtime,” said Sturm, who tipped in a shot from Patrice Bergeron under the darkening sky, then glided over to the glass at the left-field corner of the rink, his arms aloft in relief and exultation, as his teammates jumped over the boards and mobbed him  a walk-off goal at Fenway Park.
Sturm’s goal, and the desperate tying goal scored by the Bruins’ Mark Recchi with 2 minutes 18 seconds left in regulation, set off an explosion of celebration among the 38,112 fans at Fenway. 
“We hadn’t given our fans much to cheer about,” said Recchi, who is 41 and the highest-scoring active N.H.L. player. “But then when I got to the bench it hit me. The noise and the energy in the stadium was incredible.”
Up until the third period, the game was marked by frequent missed passes, fanned shots and offensive rushes that ended in offside. It was hard to tell whether all the errors were the result of the puck bouncing irregularly along the ice surface, as it often did in temperatures that varied between 39 degrees at the opening face-off and 35 when Sturm scored, or simply by the first outdoor meeting between two mediocre teams.
But that was almost beside the point. The old ballpark was sold out and, as in previous Winter Classics, about a third of the fans cheered for the visitors. Philadelphia fans chanted “Let’s go Flyers,” dominating the vocal support early in the game, but by the second period Boston fans were replying with “Let’s go Bruins,” and the dueling chants resounded through the stadium. 
“I’m surprised to see how much orange there is here,” said Travis Haynes, 38, a Flyers fan who lives in Laconia, N.H., who watched the game from a seat atop the Green Monster, which offered one of the best views of the rink. “But it’s been friendly between the fans.”
A party mood prevailed, with the crowd singing along to the Red Sox staple “Sweet Caroline” halfway through the third period. 
“This is fantastic,” said Mark Gralinski, 38, a Bruins fan from Springfield, Mass., who also watched from the Green Monster. “I’m not much of a baseball fan, but it’s great they they’re doing this here.” 
The only goal of the first two periods, perhaps fittingly, was the result of a miscue. During a flurry by the Flyers, Philadelphia forward Scott Hartnell slyly tripped Bruins goalie Tim Thomas. While the puck went back to Flyers defenseman Danny Syvret, Thomas retaliated by crosschecking Hartnell  just as Syvret’s shot went between Thomas’s legs at 4:42 of the second period for his first N.H.L. goal.
“I was very grateful that we tied the game, because the only goal the Flyers got was because I lost my cool,” Thomas said. 
The afternoon also featured the first fight in an N.H.L. outdoor game. 
The frequent fighter Daniel Carcillo of the Flyers exchanged punches with and knocked down his Bruins counterpart Shawn Thornton 12 minutes into the game. As he stepped into the penalty box, Carcillo turned to the crowd and flashed a devil-horn sign with both hands, a gesture he characterized as “Yeah  rock ’n’ roll!”
Carcillo suggested that he and Thornton had a tacit pregame agreement to scrap. “We were looking at each other in warm-up and smiling,” Carcillo said. “We were going to do it.” 
Sturm, Recchi and Thomas were asked what they would take away as their strongest impressions of the Winter Classic.
“Yesterday, walking out when it was snowing was an amazing feeling,” Recchi said of Thursday’s practice session at Fenway.
“Walking out today, with all the fans in the seats, gave me a little taste of what a baseball player would feel,” Thomas said.
Sturm said, “Yesterday, the family skate was unbelievable  my son didn’t want to go off.”
Thomas said that he would never forget the overtime victory at Fenway. 
“When Marco scored the winner,” he said, “that was one of the most incredible feelings that I can remember.”
It was the first time in the league’s four outdoor games, including the 2003 Heritage Classic in Edmonton, that the home team won.
This bonus season, would you rather be a banker at Goldman Sachs or Citigroup? Goldman has famously set aside more money to reward employees for their efforts last year. But the biggest bonuses will come mostly in stock, and Goldman’s shares have surged from the lows of the crisis. Give other banks’ shares a chance to catch up and bankers paid in the laggards’ equity could wind up richer on 2009’s spoils. 
Consider Goldman’s recovery. Last year’s equity compensation was set when the stock traded at $78.78 a share. Since then, the market price has more than doubled. So an employee who received, say, half of a $500,000 bonus in stock wound up 12 months later with $250,000 in cash and shares worth $543,000. Not bad. 
Given Goldman’s stunning 2009 performance, that same employee may be on track for a $1 million payout this time  though the equity component will most likely be higher, perhaps 80 percent. Indeed, Goldman’s top 30 executives will receive nothing but restricted shares, a policy being mimicked across the industry. 
A Citi banker who received the same $500,000 bonus a year ago, split 50-50, would be nursing a 50 percent loss on the equity part since then. Suppose that banker grabs a bonus this year that is 30 percent smaller than his Goldman peer, or $700,000, also with four-fifths of it in stock. He’d receive around 155,000 Citi shares. 
The good news is, at $3.63, those shares are cheap compared with Citi’s third-quarter book value, or assets minus liabilities, of $6.15 a share. Contrast that with Goldman, whose stock already trades at 1.6 times book value, a big premium to rivals. 
Suppose Citi recovered to book value  a goal that’s not far-fetched  and Goldman’s shares stayed flat. The Citi banker’s shares would then be worth around $950,000, for a total package of about $1.1 million, trumping the Goldman payout, at least in the short run. 
Of course, this assumes the rally in Goldman shares is over, and that Citi can regain the full confidence of investors. Those are big ifs. But for employees of the biggest laggard in finance, there’s always hope.
On a Bank Levy
A levy on bank liabilities would get the industry squealing, especially if it approached $120 billion. But the Obama administration isn’t crazy to float the idea. A well-crafted tax could help recoup bailout costs while also giving banks an incentive to behave more sensibly. It doesn’t have to apply just to the United States, either.
Populism aside, the main rationale for a levy is that the size of a bank’s liabilities is a reasonable proxy for the risk it poses to the financial system and for the benefit it received from the cheap money central banks doled out to offset the credit squeeze. It’s reasonable that banks should pay for help from their lenders of last resort.
There is one big proviso. Deposits should be taken out of the liability bucket. In the United States and elsewhere banks already pay insurance fees on deposits, so including them would amount to double taxation. Any new liability tax should focus just on wholesale finance, a riskier “easy come, easy go” form of funding. With such a charge in place, banks would have an incentive to build up their deposits, something that regulators across the world are urging them to do anyway.
There is also one big question. Should such a tariff be an ongoing part of the fiscal framework or a one-time charge? The argument for permanence derives from its being viewed as an insurance premium paid in return for a continuing safety net.
But there is a case for a special one-time levy in addition to an ongoing tax, to take account of the extraordinary assistance banks have received over the last two years. Walter Bagehot, the 19th-century British economist, said that in a crisis, central banks should lend freely but at penalty rates. During the recent crisis, the authorities thought banks were too fragile to pay through the nose for help. Now that the industry is again making bumper profits, there is an opportunity to call in that favor.
JERSEY CITY
THE tallest, “Trumpiest” condominium in New Jersey — the 55-story Trump Plaza Jersey City — hit the market two years ago, just as economic forces aligned to hamper its success. 
Dean S. Geibel, a managing partner of Metro Homes, then an exceedingly busy builder on the “Gold Coast,” had the Donald from across the river lend his name and label to an ambitious plan for two mammoth residential towers that were to become the tallest in the state. They would swagger on the Jersey skyline, luring luxury-level bargain-hunters from Manhattan and pied-à-terre seekers from all over the world; that was the plan.
But the plan changed. The second tower was put on “indefinite delay” as work on the first was still being completed.
Today the lone Trump building stands about half full, with 239 of its 443 units sold. Only a handful of sales have occurred in the year since the housing market and Wall Street meltdowns. And in August, after Metro Homes defaulted on payment of its construction loans, iStar Financial took over ownership of the building. It has since hired the real estate company Coalco to devise plans for a “relaunch.”
iStar has reportedly suffered widespread losses on real estate investments — another being an Asbury Park beachfront redevelopment project, whose master developer also defaulted on loan payments. The Roseland Property Company is now representing iStar’s interests in Asbury Park, working with officials to scale back and reconfigure redevelopment plans.
At Trump Plaza, the curtains are set to rise on a new act next month. The designer Benjamin Noriega-Ortiz was brought in from Manhattan to “raise the level of elegance” in the building’s public spaces, and his prescription for a more sumptuous look involves drapes. 
It also involves lighting, rugs, the introduction of royal purple and blue to the color scheme, new names for the rooms (“arrival room” rather than library), a new name for the building (it will be called Trump Plaza Residences), a new logo and a new gold-lettered sign over the door.
In the spring, the pool, cabana and “great lawn” area on the seventh floor will be relandscaped and refurnished; seven new cabanas will also be built, according to Jodi Stasse, the president of Stasse and Company, now the sales and marketing agent for Trump in Jersey City.
Mr. Noriega-Ortiz is keeping an eye on cost, Ms. Stasse said, but devoting himself to detail. Last week, the floor-to-ceiling light boxes in the “arrival room” already gave the room a “more mansionlike feel,” as she put it, because decorative decals had been added to them.
 Coming soon, according to Mr. Noriega-Ortiz: a purple carpet to the sidewalk, bearing the Trump family crest in gold; white drapes in the reception area with purple liners; and the lighting of the top of the building to produce a purple-tinted glow.
As to more substantive changes to revitalize sales — price changes, for example — Ms. Stasse said only that apartment prices currently start in the “low $400,000s,” which she noted was affordable enough for buyers to come in under the guidelines for eligibility for the federal first-timers’ income-tax credit program, which has been extended until April 30.
Wells Fargo Bank is now in charge of “prequalifying” buyers before they sign a contract, and a representative is to be stationed full time in the new Trump sales office — which is being moved to the building’s penthouse level and ensconced in a Noriega-Ortiz-designed three-bedroom condo.
Wells Fargo is offering F.H.A.-insured 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages, with rates currently just above 5 percent, according to Raymond Lamberti Jr., a branch manager.
As for the Trump Organization’s role in promoting the property, there appears to have been little or no change. The company was originally said to have entered into a joint venture with Metro Homes to build the tower, but took no role in its construction or operations other than determining its general aura of white-gloved concierge-quality comfort.
 Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s daughter and an executive vice president at the Trump Organization, has represented the company at the Jersey City property from the start, occasionally making appearances there over the past few years.
Ms. Trump, who is also a fashion model and jewelry designer, will serve as spokeswoman for the new marketing campaign when it gears up in March, according to Ms. Stasse.
“The idea,” she said, “is to give residents the feeling that the entire building, not just their own condominium, is home, and that home is a mansion, or a palace. 
“Ivanka will embody and articulate the message,” Ms. Stasse added. 
Mr. Noriega-Ortiz said that Ms. Trump’s role had helped inspire his redesign. “The building, while beautiful and sleek, had a very masculine, very hard-edged feel to it,” he said. “My concept is to show a woman’s touch in ‘the mansion’ — a softening, sumptuous and warm.”
“I believe this will translate into the sales experience,” he added. 
Ms. Stasse agreed. “Obviously,” she said, “that is the bottom-line goal, to have more people buy into the building.”
There are two unusual features to the diagramed deal, one of which will not be apparent.
 First, the contract is being played in a 4-3 fit. This usually works well when the hand with only three trumps also has a singleton or void, so that ruffs can be taken in the shorter trump hand. You will note that this is not the case here. And it is advisable to have strong trumps, which does apply here.
 The deal occurred during the final of the Tuesday-Wednesday Knockout Teams Bracket 2 at the Orlando Regional, which was played from Jan. 4 to 10. This is a big regional, with this year’s table count helped by the unusually cold weather in central Florida.
 The declarer in four spades was Arnold Malasky. When West led the diamond ace, declarer placed East with the spade king, diamond king-queen and club king. South ruffed in the dummy, cashed the club ace and continued with a low club to East’s king. East returned the diamond king, ruffed in the dummy.
 Now declarer had to judge what to do. If East’s hand had 2=2=7=2 distribution, South would have to cash dummy’s spade ace and two rounds of hearts before leading the club queen. But if East’s hand were 3=2=6=2, a different line would be required.
 Malasky knew that the second shape was mathematically much more likely, so he played for spades to be 3-3. At Trick 5, he led the spade queen from the dummy, the only winning play. (Cashing the spade ace before leading the queen loses, because East wins with his king, cashes the diamond queen and gives his partner a diamond ruff.)
 East won with his spade king and shifted to the heart jack. (Nothing else would have worked better.) South won in the dummy, cashed the spade ace, played a heart to his queen, took the spade jack, discarding a heart from the dummy, and claimed an overtrick because the dummy was high.
 At the other table, North doubled when two diamonds came back to him, and South passed, probably hoping that this would be the least of evils. The defenders took two spades, two hearts, one diamond and one club for down one. So the Malasky team gained 11 international match points on the board en route to winning the event.
 What was the second unusual feature? The distances separating the homes of the winners. Malasky is in Longboat Key, Fla.; his partner Richard Wegman is 860 miles away in Bethesda, Md.; his teammate Edward Spear is 1,424 miles north-northeast in Bangor, Me.; and Michael Bettis is 192 miles farther on, across the border in Moncton, New Brunswick.
Sarah Hughes rarely looks at the video of her marvelous four minutes. She does not have to. It was implanted in her mind, a permanent chip that contains the crowd’s reaction to her near perfection. 
Hughes is not living in the past. As a recent Yale graduate, she sometimes has to confront what she accomplished that night in 2002.
No matter what happens in the next few weeks at the Winter Games, can any event ever be as stunning as the long program in Salt Lake City skated by the girl in fourth place? 
That’s a lot to live up to. Fortunately, Hughes, 24, is well grounded in her large and active family, the fourth of six Hughes children, with John and Amy Hughes still treating everybody equally. And then there is her grandmother Estelle down in Florida. 
“She says she watches the video all the time,” Sarah said recently.
Most of the Hughes clan was gathered in its hometown, Great Neck, on Long Island, to celebrate Sarah’s induction into the United States Figure Skating Hall of Fame in January. 
Her sister nominated her. It is that kind of close family. Emily Hughes, who recently turned 21 and is back at Harvard, wrote the letter of nomination from her vantage point of fellow Olympian. Emily turned in one of those Hughes-style surprises at the 2006 Olympics  an energetic seventh-place finish, just off the plane, as a last-minute addition to the team.
Sarah Hughes staged her own surprise in 2002, defying the groupthink that it was time for Michelle Kwan to win a gold medal. 
Hughes understands just how improbable it was for her to pass all three skaters. In the arcane mathematics of figure skating, Irina Slutskaya had to finish ahead of Kwan, who had to finish ahead of Sasha Cohen, with just enough flubs all around to give the girl from Great Neck the slightest opening. 
“We didn’t think about it,” Sarah said the other night, her party clattering around her. “There were so many variables. But I knew it was possible.”

The Hughes family deals in the possible. Amy Hughes survived breast cancer, came back from the hospital and started running the family all over again. Possible. John Hughes was captain of the 1969-70 Cornell team that remains the only undefeated national hockey champion. (He is heading back for the 40th reunion later this month.) Possible. That’s how they think.
Arthur Kaminsky, a prominent sports lawyer, was reminded of this mentality in 2002 when he and his Cornell friend John Hughes awaited the long program. The so-called experts had been saying the family had done it all wrong, that Sarah should have gone far away to train with a big-time coach, not play the violin in the middle school orchestra in Great Neck. 
Kaminsky asked his friend if Sarah had a chance for a medal. The athlete said that as far as he was concerned, Sarah hadn’t botched a triple in weeks and in fact had a chance for a gold medal.
“I’m astounded by what I actually accomplished,” Sarah said the other night, a young woman who likes to laugh turning serious for the moment.
“I trained for those four minutes, but afterward, I couldn’t believe what I did. I know I did the two triple-triples. I remember them well. I nailed each one. But there were so many things I did. I forgot about all those things.”
Once in a great while, her friends at Yale  she lived in a dormitory all four years  would play the video, and she would be reminded just how long the four minutes were, just how many maneuvers she had to nail. But the memory chip had been planted that night in 2002 when her coach, Robin Wagner, did one of the wisest things a coach could ever do.
“Afterward, Robin told me to turn around and soak it all in,” Hughes said, recalling how she faced the rink, watched the fans celebrate, not knowing how the judges would vote. “I let it go on, just enjoying it.” 
She placed herself backward, one third of her lifetime ago: she was going back to high school, was applying to colleges; this was liable to be her only Olympics. 
“In the end, it became more memorable because I was able to take a mental snapshot,” Hughes said. 
When she finally left the ice, she ran into Scott Hamilton, a skater turned broadcaster.
“Scott appeared and said, ‘Your life will never be the same.’ ”
This needs to be remembered: when Hughes and her coach and her father materialized in the media center later, they thanked people for having been there along the way. There was no trace of the faux-underdog attitude of sports, when winning athletes whine, “You guys didn’t believe in us.”
That graciousness endures. At her party last week, Sarah thanked everybody, including Tim Murray, who in 1998 was hired to prepare the skates of the Americans in the Goodwill Games on Long Island. 
Assuming everybody would be concentrating on Kwan, whom she admires, Hughes brought her own tiny screwdriver in case her skates went out of kilter.

Murray spotted the screwdriver and said, “I’ve got a good place for that,” and tossed it in a garbage can. Then he said, “Sarah, I’m here for you  I’ll take care of everything.” Murray seemed stunned that she would remember his attentiveness. 
The family continues to explore the possible  John as a tax and real estate lawyer; Amy, a Cornell grad, holding everybody together; Rebecca Hughes Parker, a litigator in Manhattan with twin daughters; David, expanding his gin-distribution business; Matt, a cinematographer; Emily at Harvard; and the youngest daughter, Taylor, a freshman at Tulane. Sarah is enjoying her first year out of Yale; her dad thinks her ultimate strength may be writing. 
For her acceptance speech last month, she wrote a poem. She said she was the first inductee ever to recite a poem. Possible.
After “American Idol,” on Fox, trailed in its time slot last week for the first time in more than 200 episodes, it returned to form in the ratings on Tuesday night with its first live broadcast of the season, outperforming NBC’s coverage of the Winter Olympics. According to Nielsen’s estimates, 24 million viewers tuned in to the two-hour “Idol” from 8 to 10 p.m., compared with the 20.8 million who watched NBC during the same time period. NBC did lead during the 10 o’clock hour, improving its average for the night (21.2 million), but Fox still won the night over all. CBS ranked third with reruns of “NCIS” (11.5 million), “NCIS: Los Angeles” (8.6 million) and “The Good Wife” (7.1 million). ABC was fourth.
 What is highly unusual about the diagramed deal?
 It occurred during the Slava Cup, which took place at the Moscow City Golf Club in Russia from last Saturday through Monday. Sixteen top pairs played a round robin of eight-board matches scored by international match points. That result was then converted to victory points, with 60 to 0 being a blitz.
 With one round to go, only three pairs were in contention. Roy Welland and Zia Mahmood from the United States had 557 victory points, 20 ahead of Tony Forrester and Artur Malinowski from England, with Fu Zhong and Zhao Jie from China another 2 behind.
 In the last round, Zia and Welland lost, 55 to 5, to Jason and Justin Hackett from England, seemingly losing first place. But Forrester and Malinowski were defeated by Jacek Kalita and Krzysztof Kotorowicz from Poland, 39 victory points to 21. And Fu and Zhao also lost, 45 to 15, to one of the two women’s pairs, Victoria Gromova and Tatiana Ponomareva from Russia. (The other was Sabine Auken and Daniela von Arnim from Germany.)
 So Welland and Zia won the $10,000 first prize by 4 victory points from Forrester and Malinowski, with Fu and Zhao third. The diagramed deal occurred during Round 8. Note that despite no eight-card fit it is possible for North-South to make a grand slam in all five strains. Yes, seven hearts survives the 5-2 trump break.
 One pair played in six clubs, and six stopped in six no-trump. Only Zia (North) and Welland got to a grand slam with the given auction. 
 South’s two-no-trump rebid had the advantage of describing his hand’s high-card strength. Three clubs was a transfer to diamonds, and three spades was a control-bid (cue-bid) showing that ace and denying the heart ace. Four clubs promised a high club (ace or king) and made clubs the agreed suit. Four hearts was a control-bid. Four no-trump was Roman Key Card Blackwood for clubs, the reply showing the club queen and two key cards (here, the trump king and heart ace). 
Five no-trump was a grand-slam try, which Welland was happy to accept with three kings and all four jacks. He jumped to seven clubs, hoping to hear Zia pass even with ace-doubleton, because he was worried that Zia would think he had the diamond king.
 West led a trump. Declarer won with his eight, took dummy’s two spade winners, played a heart to his ace and cashed the heart king, dropping the queen. Welland ruffed his high heart eight with dummy’s club ace, drew trumps and claimed plus 2,140.
Welland is on a roll: he was recently named the winner of the Sidney H. Lazard Jr. Sportsman of the Year award.
BARCELONA, Spain — Here in the principal city of Catalonia, the native language, Catalan, is heard just about everywhere except in the movies. But that may be about to change because the local government is expected to pass a bill requiring that at least half the copies of every film from outside Europe, including all major American productions, be dubbed in Catalan.
 That prompted 576 of the 790 movie houses in Catalonia, a region slightly bigger than Maryland, to close for a day last month in protest. 
 Industry leaders recalled that Catalonia’s government, which enjoys a broad measure of autonomy from Madrid, made a similar proposal in 1998 but backed down in the face of opposition from theater owners, film distributors and foreign production companies. “They say it’s necessary for the government to make a rule, because the private sector doesn’t do it,” said Camilo Tarrazón Rodón, president of the Association of Film Businesses in Catalonia, which opposes the bill. 
Film attendance has declined in recent years, he said, with the exception of an uptick last year thanks to the arrival of digital and 3-D. “Banks are not lending, companies have business problems and kids look at films on cellphones,” Mr. Tarrazón said. “How can we pay for it?”
 With an influx of immigrants to prosperous Catalonia — about one million of the 7.3 million population are newcomers — the region has been struggling to maintain what it considers its Catalonian soul. The bill is but the latest attempt to assert Catalan culture and its language — similar to Spanish, but also to French and Italian — yet with its own history, poets and prose writers. 
 By law, schoolchildren are required to receive their education in Catalan. In a further blow to Spanish culture, a referendum before the Catalan Parliament would end bullfighting, another Spanish passion, here altogether. 
 The draft film law comes at a time of deep uncertainty for the central government in Madrid, which is struggling with a severe economic crisis and high unemployment. But it also highlights Barcelona’s curious role in Spanish culture, even as it seeks to assert its distinctness.
Oddly, Barcelona is the capital of Spain’s publishing industry, and roughly three-fourths of all books purchased in the region are in Spanish, said Joan Manuel Tresserras, 55, a former communications professor who is now the Catalan culture minister. Half of all radio programs are heard in Catalan and a majority of plays in the city’s theaters, with the exception of musicals, are in Catalan. 
 “We think we need a more diverse cinematic culture, a wider range of opportunities,” he said, seated under two big canvases by the 20th-century Catalan painter Miquel Barceló. Under Franco, the use of Catalan was discouraged, Mr. Tresserras said. That eased after Franco’s death in 1975, but even two years later, Mr. Tresserras, then serving in the army, said he spent three days in solitary confinement after officers overheard him speaking Catalan.
 Mr. Tresserras says moviegoers do not go to films in Catalan because so few are shown — about 3 percent of all movies — that they are not aware they might have that alternative. But theater owners and distributors say there are few films in Catalan because moviegoers do not want them.
 The magazine Cineytele said that in tests at a multiplex in Barcelona, only 12 of 131 moviegoers chose Catalan when offered the choice of seeing the same foreign film in that or Spanish.
Not everyone is convinced. “Most theater is in Catalan, and there are no complaints,” said Rosanna Rion, 46, who grew up speaking Catalan and teaches English at Barcelona University. “These tests — I’m not so sure about them.”
 What major film producers, including American majors, have told the government here is that they fear, in addition to the additional cost, a possible knock-on effect. “They fear that Galicia or the Basque countries, or even the Bretons or Corsica, in France, could be next,” said Joan Antoni Gonzáles, 61, who is secretary general of Catalonia’s Federation of Audiovisual Producers, which last year broke away from Spain’s national organization. The draft law would not affect films that were shot in Spanish, or European films unless more than 15 copies are circulated, so the brunt will clearly be felt by American productions. 
 Mr. Gonzáles says he believes that Parliament will “make the law sweeter for the majors,” possibly by having the government pay for the dubbing — a task made easier by the introduction of digitalized films. Last year, box office revenue at Catalonia’s film theaters rose by almost 10 percent, thanks mainly to the introduction of digital and 3-D blockbusters like “Avatar,” he said.
 He cited a recent film, “Elegy,” by the Catalan director Isabel Coixet, an adaptation of a Philip Roth novel in which a college teacher becomes obsessed with a student, played by Penélope Cruz. “Elegy,” he said, was shown in seven theaters in the original English with Catalan subtitles, and was a total success.
 Some visitors to Barcelona feel the city is sufficiently cosmopolitan to absorb any languages. “Most of my courses are in Spanish, though my American literature courses are in English,” said Luigi Suardi, 23, an Italian exchange student at Barcelona University. He said his friends spoke a mix of Spanish and Catalan. “People living in Barcelona don’t have strong feelings” about language, he said, adding, “It’s difficult for small countries.”
 Enric Juste, 33, a documentary filmmaker, said that above all, Catalonia lacked original films with subtitles. “There is no tradition here of using subtitles,” he said. “People are not used to such films.”
 He favors the draft law, dismissing critics who say films in Catalan do not draw viewers. “But there are so few films in Catalan, you’re talking about a situation that, at the moment, is fiction; you cannot talk about a situation that doesn’t exist.”
A Sunday night matchup of reality-show executives was hardly a horse race as an expletive-tossing Donald Trump was whipped by Bill Carstanjen, the chief operating officer of Churchill Downs. According to Nielsen’s estimates an episode of the CBS series “Undercover Boss” featuring Mr. Carstanjen drew 13.3 million viewers, making it the most watched program of the night and beating the season premiere of “The Celebrity Apprentice” (8.3 million), the Donald’s long-running NBC show. CBS won the night over all with a lineup rounded out by “60 Minutes” (11.7 million), “The Amazing Race” (10.2 million) and “Cold Case” (10.2 million). ABC was runner-up with programs that included “Desperate Housewives” (11.8 million). NBC was third, getting a so-so start from its new game show “Minute to Win It”; its debut drew 4.6 million viewers and a second episode was watched by 7.2 million. On fourth-place Fox, the premiere of “Sons of Tucson” (4.5 million) had an even worse showing.
Mr. Trump, 32, is an executive vice president at the Trump Organization, a title he shares with his sister Ivanka and his brother Eric. His father, Donald J. Trump, is the chairman and chief executive.
The company is a property manager and developer specializing in luxury hotels, resorts, residential towers and golf courses worldwide.

Q Your newest condo/hotel, Trump SoHo, opens on Friday. Is there a grand opening planned? A We’re going to open subtly, then once we’re back in the fall and the world’s in a little better place, we’ll do something a little more lavish. Given what’s going on in the world and the economy, it didn’t seem appropriate to do some major gala type of opening.
Q How are sales and bookings?
A We’ve sold a good number, but we haven’t discussed that publicly. We’ve sold at about $2,900 a foot, on average, and the units are from under 500 feet to 10,000.
We’re booking rooms. We’re ramping up, and we’re doing so at a lower rate: $389 initially. We want to get people in to see the building. There’s nothing like it downtown. By fall, we hope to be north of $500 a night.
Q What’s your role in the project?
A We weren’t the developer. Our primary role has always been from the hotel management side.
Q That means less financial risk.
A It depends on the individual job — in this case, less so.
Part of our business model has been to piggyback off the brand my father has created over the years. No one else really has that global brand recognition. We’ll get involved in the aesthetic design. We’re not necessarily the equity capital.
Q Trump is developing and financing the Trump Scotland golf resort in Aberdeen, a project you supervise. How is that going?
A We’re under construction. We’re going to be open for golf in about two years. We have 1,400 acres on the North Sea with dunes that step up over the beach — they go for 150 feet. It’s a dream for a links golf course.
The housing component will phase in after that. We have 900 apartments, almost like a fractional ownership. We have villas and a 400-room hotel. We don’t have any leverage on it; we’ve been building it out of cash.
Q You’re also supervising renovations at the Trump International Hotel and Tower. What’s the status there?
A We’re doing it in two phases, so we don’t have to take the building out of operation. The first phase is actually finishing now. It’s a $25 million facelift. It’s going to have a new contemporary feel.
Q And you recently took over managing 40 Wall Street.
A I’m taking over leasing. It’s one of our downtown commercial buildings — a little different than what a lot of people would think of as “Trump.” At one point in time it was the tallest building in the world.
Occupancy is probably north of 75 percent; a year ago it was probably in the 60s.
Q So are you the heir apparent of the Trump Organization?
A We don’t really talk about that. We have a great relationship — Ivanka, Eric and I — and that’s always carried on despite what’s going on in our family. We recognize that each of us has perhaps strengths and weaknesses. The first thing that’s going to destroy a pretty good thing and perhaps a family dynasty would be any kind of infighting over who’s the boss.
And knowing my father, he’s going to be around here for a long time. His father’s expression was, “to retire is to expire.”
Q But there’s no doubt you have been groomed for your job.
A Very much so. I joke that I have 32 years in real estate. When I spent time with my father it wasn’t playing ball in the backyard. I came to his office and listened to him do business or sat in on meetings. I walked job sites. On Saturday, we’d see my grandfather in Queens for a couple hours and then he’d say, “Let’s go collect rent!”
My father’s not the type of person that teaches you by saying, “Come here, son. I’m going to tell you about real estate.” You learn by watching it. If you don’t pick it up, it’s your problem.
Q Do you think your father is perhaps harder on you than other employees.
A I think so because he expects a lot from us. He holds us to a very high standard because he doesn’t like poor reflections on himself. He’s very tough, but also fair.
Q Do you like being on “The Apprentice” ?
A I actually enjoy it. I resisted it when my father initially asked me to get involved. But you could only say no to him for so long.
Effectively my job is to create a little controversy in the boardroom, call people out when they’re full of it and create an interesting show. It’s nice being on his side of the table for a change.
The investor Carl C. Icahn has bought the remaining half of the $500 million mortgage on the three Trump Entertainment Resorts casinos he is trying to buy out of bankruptcy. He also won a $10 million interest payment in the transaction. Mr. Icahn, who previously owned 51 percent of the mortgage issued by the Beal Bank, agreed last week to buy the remaining 49 percent at a 7.5 percent discount, according to court documents. Mr. Icahn and a Texas billionaire, the banker Andy Beal, are facing off against Trump Entertainment bondholders and Donald Trump for ownership of the company’s three Atlantic City casinos. Mr. Icahn wants to convert the mortgage into ownership of the casinos. Trump bondholders have offered to buy the company for $225 million, giving Donald Trump as much as 10 percent ownership in return for letting them continue to use his name on the casinos. A bankruptcy judge is expected to pick the winner by April 15. 
There are no doormen or concierges or gyms. Wrapped in skins of dull brown brick, the towers’ only flourishes are splashes of blue or yellow tile, or the laundry that residents sometimes hang from their terraces. The apartments, at Brooklyn’s southern tip, came with vinyl floor tiles and slots for owners to install their own air-conditioners.
 “Well-lit walkways” are considered an amenity. 
 At Trump Village, there is none of the gilt-edged luxury that has come to be associated with its eponymous owner, Donald J. Trump, the tycoon with a tendency toward opulence and a talent for self-promotion. Unlike Mr. Trump’s new condo-hotel opening on Friday in Manhattan’s SoHo neighborhood, it has no Fendi furniture, no fleet of limousines waiting for residents’ whims, no spa offering couples massages. Then again, a studio in the 46-story Trump SoHo runs about $1.2 million; Jacob Berman, a carpenter who helped build Trump Village and has lived there since it opened in 1964, rents a two-bedroom spread with an ocean view for about $600 a month (which itself is a lot more than the $250 rent he paid when he moved in).
 “I see the sea from my windows; the neighbors are from all over,” Mr. Berman, 90, said as he sat on an Ocean Parkway bench, watching shoppers at a church flea market, friends ambling by with their walkers and a surfer walking to the beach. “Where am I going to go?”
Rising above the kitschy amusements of Coney Island among a thicket of bland apartment towers, Trump Village is a semiprecious stone in the glittery Trump crown, built half a century ago not for masters of the universe but for the teachers and accountants fleeing change in their neighborhoods or simply moving on up, from one bedroom to two. Trump Village was, of course, built not by Mr. Trump but his sometimes overlooked father, Fred C. Trump, who spawned the family’s real estate empire in Brooklyn and Queens, one solidly built middle-class home or apartment building at a time. He died in 1999. 
As Trump Village — the only one of his developments that Fred Trump hung his name on — rose in the early 1960s, Donald, then a teenager, helped prepare the units for new tenants and then handled their complaints. At his father’s side, Mr. Trump said, he learned about contractors, and negotiations. Mr. Trump said his father had been “very proud of the project.” Reflecting on Trump Village, where he said he tried to stop by “every time I’m on the Belt Parkway,” Mr. Trump sketched out the differences between their real estate philosophies: once, he recalled, his father asked why he did not use brick instead of glass.
“I build the most luxurious buildings in the world; my father was extremely cost conscious,” Mr. Trump said. “Gucci is a hot store in Trump Tower for me. Waldbaum’s was the hot store for him.” 
There are still plenty of residents who remember seeing Fred Trump collecting rent, or eating at the diner near the Waldbaum’s — the grocery closed in 1999. Mr. Berman, the carpenter, said it was Mr. Trump himself who offered him a rental apartment. 
Peter Dispensa, 59, moved to Trump Village as a boy and lives with his mother on the 20th floor with an ocean view. He declined to say what his family paid to buy the apartment in 1964, but nothing in the building went for more than a few thousand dollars. 
“For what I’m getting, in Manhattan I’d pay $2,000 a month,“ said Mr. Dispensa, a train operator for New York City Transit. “It’s an excellent place to live.”
The Trump name meant little to Gerald and Lila Avit back in the early ’60s, when they were newly married and concerned about money. Mr. Avit worked in advertising, and Ms. Avit took care of their children. A relative told them about the towers rising near Coney Island, and they took a look at the floor plans. Before the apartment was even built, they borrowed the $1,850 price. 
There was plenty of public transportation, and they liked the sea air. But an elevated subway track snaked around their building; the dining room was small. Still, they stayed 45 years (and counting), raising their two children, and now a granddaughter, in the place.
Over the years, “Trump” took on a meaning in Trump Village that might surprise other New Yorkers. “He did a lot for low- and middle-income families,” Ms. Avit said of Fred Trump. 
In her 2000 book, “The Trumps: Three Generations That Built an Empire,” Gwenda Blair described the fight for 61 acres of land in Coney Island between Mr. Trump, who by the late 1950s was one of Brooklyn’s biggest builders, and Abraham E. Kazan, the union leader who pioneered the building of cooperative apartments for working families. 
 Mr. Kazan planned to build on the parcel “the world’s largest cooperative, a huge complex that would contain 12 20-story buildings and more than 5,000 apartments,” Ms. Blair wrote. But Mr. Trump, who also had designs on the site, “vigorously portrayed himself as a defender of free enterprise.” The two men eventually shared the land. 
The seven towers of Trump Village were designed by the architect Morris Lapidus. The two near Ocean Parkway were rental buildings and were run by the Trump Organization until recent years. The five other buildings were in the state’s Mitchell-Lama program, which allows people with incomes below certain thresholds to enter lotteries for the right to buy co-op apartments at below-market prices. 
Warren H. Hirsch, a co-op board member, said he and others had worked to improve on Fred Trump’s thrifty legacy, planting cherry, pear and other trees. In the late 1980s, building facades had to be replaced. A playground was built, and the lobbies were refurbished. 
Three years ago, the co-op residents voted to make the buildings private, allowing owners to sell their apartments at market rates. 
As wealthy buyers snap up vacant apartments — about 250 since the development was made private last year — Mercedes-Benzes are replacing the run-down jalopies in the parking lots, and many of the original tenants are griping about the Russian newcomers. Apartment walls are being knocked down; someone bought two apartments and created a vast duplex. 
Some of these new residents are talking about hiring concierges.
Donald J. Trump is hoping the third time will be the charm.
 As it prepares to exit bankruptcy court for the third time, Trump Entertainment Resorts and its three Atlantic City casinos will be under the control of Mr. Trump and bondholders after a court ruling on Monday.
 Mr. Trump joined with bondholders in a successful $225 million bid that beat out a rival offer by Carl C. Icahn, known for his aggressive corporate takeovers.
 Much of the money for the bid was put up by Avenue Capital Management, a New York hedge fund. Mr. Trump will control 10 percent of the company and will have the option to increase his stake in the future.
 Rather than cash, Mr. Trump offered the bondholders the use of his name on the three casinos.
 “The Trump brand is worth millions of dollars to the debtors,” the bankruptcy judge, Judith Wizmur, said in her ruling. “The debtors’ identification with the Trump Organization raises its profile in the gaming industry.”
 Mr. Trump, who was forced to give up operational control in an earlier round in bankruptcy court, predicted the company would fare better than it has in the past.
 “We’re very happy, it’s a great victory,” he said in an interview. “Icahn wanted the name, but we made the deal with bondholders.”
 Unlike the two previous bankruptcy plans, the debt of the company will be reduced sharply, falling from nearly $2 billion to less than $500 million, according to Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s daughter and executive vice president of development and acquisitions at the Trump Organization. 
 “We’re going to have a large influx of new capital and we’re positioning ourselves for future growth,” she said. “It’s a great time to be a gaming company without much debt and a very healthy capital structure. Few gaming companies are currently in that position.”
 Mr. Icahn had teamed up with Beal Bank of Texas, buying a $486 million mortgage on the company, which he had hoped to convert into a stake in the company once it emerged from bankruptcy. Mr. Icahn did not return calls seeking comment.
 The three properties — Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort, Trump Plaza Hotel and Trump Marina Hotel Casino — face a cloudy future. Atlantic City, as well as the gambling industry, has suffered in recent years, hit hard by the recession and changing consumer tastes. More than one-third of the city’s 11 casinos have been in bankruptcy, and more gamblers have been going to rival gambling centers in Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut.
The Trump Taj Mahal is one of Atlantic City’s biggest hotels, with more than 2,000 rooms. Together with the Trump Plaza and Trump Marina Hotel Casino, the three properties account for about a fifth of gambling revenue in Atlantic City.
OF all the shiny things in Donald and Melania Trump’s dining room on the 66th floor of Trump Tower — the gold panes on the floor-to-ceiling windows, the gold candelabra, the gold-toned mirrors etched with gold — the most distracting may be Mrs. Trump herself. Wearing black J Brand skinny jeans, a white Dolce & Gabbana blouse and select items from her soon-to-be-introduced jewelry line, Mrs. Trump is every bit the lithe, shimmering beauty that her modeling photos suggest.
The décor may be Louis XIV by way of Atlantic City, but the hostess is pure Fashion Week. Throw in a little QVC and you have the makings of an intriguing brand extension.
On April 30 — four days after her 40th birthday — Mrs. Trump will unveil a line of jewelry and watches bearing her name and available exclusively through QVC, the home shopping network, and its Web site. It will be her first venture into retailing and her second major contribution to the Trump brand (Barron, her 4-year-old son with Mr. Trump, being the first).
Not surprisingly, Mrs. Trump describes the venture in the Trumpian language of self-promotion.
“Many people I talk to, they said, ‘Amazing, amazing idea,’ ” she said.
Why QVC? “They’re the largest media, they’re in millions and millions of homes around the world,” she said. “They are the biggest and the best in that world.”
The jewelry, some of which is laid out on the north end of her giant dining room table on this sunny afternoon in March, is every bit as sparkly as its creator. Among the items in the Melania Timepieces and Jewelry collection are a braided chain necklace, available in silver and gold, for $40; a cocktail ring featuring a faux ruby surrounded by faux diamonds, for $35; and a chunky silver watch styled like a bracelet (“with the holes so you can see the skin,” she said), for $64.
Mrs. Trump, who has been married to Mr. Trump for five years and is his third wife, said that she alone designed the jewelry line, without outside help. She explained that before she was an internationally renowned model — appearing on the covers of GQ and Vogue, among others — she studied design and architecture in Slovenia, where she was born and where her mother was a clothing designer. She keeps a sketchbook at hand for when inspiration strikes.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Trump sings her praises.
“She’s got an amazing sense of design and an amazing level of intelligence,” he said in a telephone interview. “She’s got great ability, and I want her to run with it.”
But a Trump on QVC? Isn’t that a tad ... downscale?
Mrs. Trump, eating a lunch of asparagus salad and salmon served by an omnipresent white-coated butler, is quick to point out that her husband is “selling his own ties and suits in Macy’s, and they’re flying off the shelves.” And she says that she wanted to reach as wide an audience as possible, which is one reason the items top out at $200.
•
It is not the first time a Trump has waded into the jewelry business. Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trump’s daughter with his first wife, Ivana, started her own line in 2007. But unlike the QVC collection, Ivanka’s is aimed at a more luxe customer — pieces start at $750 and go north of $100,000, and are sold at her boutique on Madison Avenue.
 Ivanka Trump said that despite the obvious parallels between her jewelry collection and her stepmother’s, the two never discussed their work, much less collaborated on it. Still, she described Melania Trump as “a friend” and said they frequently met for lunch.
Of course, no two members of the far-flung Trump clan need collaborate to share a marketing strategy. The Trump mystique is the driving force behind any product (or TV show, or golf course) bearing its name, and one that has proved remarkably durable over decades. 
This fact is not lost on Mrs. Trump. QVC is doing its part to promote the introduction of her line — a TV promo, e-mail blasts and a feature in the network’s Q Guide magazine— but she has also spent the last few months personally showing off the baubles in the editorial pages of glossy magazines and on Facebook, opening up about her role in the family and day-to-day life with her son.
•
She is the third wife of Mr. Trump to raise a child in this apartment, and she gladly shows off pictures of all of her husband’s family members, narrating as she goes. “This is his son and the wife, and here with the baby,” she said, showing a photo of Mr. Trump’s oldest son, Donald Jr., and his family. 
What attracted her to Mr. Trump initially? “We don’t go just to walking around,” she said. “Other guys are like, ‘Oh, let’s go out for dinner or out for movie.’” She shook her head. “And in the middle, ‘What am I doing here? Wasting my time.’ ”
Indeed, she is not one for self-reflection. Asked if a person ever gets used to living among such opulence, she replied, without irony or humor: “Yeah, you get used to it. Yeah.”
SHANGHAI — The daily Web habits of a typical 18-year-old college student named Li Yufei show why American Internet companies, one after another, have had trouble penetrating what is now the world’s most wired nation.
 He writes a blog, downloads Korean television shows, manages two Web sites devoted to music and plays an online game called Rongguang Hospital, at Baidu.com.
 “I started doing a lot of this when I was about 11 years old,” says Mr. Li, a freshman at the Shanghai Maritime University. “Now, I spend most of my leisure time on the Internet,” he says. “There’s nowhere else to go.”
 Google’s decision last month to remove some of its operations from China has overshadowed a startling dynamic at work in this country, a place where young people complain that there is not a lot to do: the Internet, already a potent social force here, has become the country’s prime entertainment service.
 Frustrated with media censorship, bland programming on state-run television and limits on the number of foreign films allowed to be shown in China each year, young people are logging onto the Web and downloading alternatives. Homegrown Web sites like Baidu, Tencent and Sina.com have captured millions of Chinese youths obsessed with online games, pirated movies and music, the raising of virtual vegetables, microblogging and instant messaging.
 Even though Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are blocked by censors here, Chinese social networking sites like QQ Zone, Tianya.cn and Kaixin001.com are flourishing in surprisingly inventive ways.
A study conducted by the Boston Consulting Group found that people in China (which now has nearly 400 million Internet users) are far more connected than Americans, and that globally only the Japanese spend more time on the Web.
 Analysts say Google struggled to gain market share in China partly because the company had failed to build a big enough online community around its search engine, unlike its chief rival here, Baidu.com.
 The surprising power of online communities in China has Communist Party leaders worried about the ability of online social networks to spread viral messages that could ignite social movements, and pose a challenge to the party and its leaders. They saw what happened to Han Feng, a midlevel party official in southern China, when his private diary was recently posted online. 
In the diary, Mr. Han catalogued not just the hefty bribes he was taking, but detailed his sexual escapades with co-workers and mistresses. The ensuing online uproar led to his sacking and a criminal investigation.
 “For the government, the scary part of the Internet is the unpredictable power of its organization,” said Yang Guobin, an associate professor at Barnard College and author of “The Power of the Internet in China” (Columbia University Press, 2009). 
 “Although people are there socializing, it can provide a platform for lots of other activities, and even turn political,” he said. 
But young people in China say they are excited about the Web not because it offers a means to rebellion, but because it gives them a wide variety of social and entertainment options.
 One of the more remarkable developments in the Internet in recent years has been the informal network of young people who volunteer to produce Chinese subtitles for popular American television series like “Prison Break” and “Gossip Girl.”
 The Chinese subtitles are often translated within hours of the program’s showing in the United States, and then attached to the video and made freely available on Chinese file-sharing sites.
 Chinese Internet companies have gleaned a lesson from this: entertainment trumps politics on the Web in China.
 “The Web is really a reflection of real life,” says Gary Wang, founder and chief executive of Tudou, one of China’s biggest video-sharing sites. “What people do in real life is they go to karaoke rooms, they go to bars, they get together with friends and they shop. And that’s what they do online.”
 Baidu is one of the companies that recognized the link. Founded in 1999, Baidu — which got an early investment from Google — quickly established itself as China’s largest search engine.
 By the time Google sold its stake in Baidu and set up its own Chinese-language search engine in 2006, Baidu was already expanding its site in the hopes of building a community that would stick around longer on the site.
 One of the company’s most popular offerings is the Baidu Post Bar, an online bulletin board of hot topics that now accounts for nearly 15 percent of the site’s traffic. (Among the most popular topics in recent weeks was a television anchorwoman’s ties to a corrupt official).
 There is also Baidu Knows, Baidu Space (for blogs) and Baidu Baike, a Chinese version of Wikipedia.
 Now, the company is working on an online video site that would work much like Hulu.com, the site in the United States where several broadcast TV networks present their shows.
 Every Chinese Internet company seems to be building its own online conglomerate to offer online games, shopping, blogs and bulletin boards. Few companies want to specialize.
 Just like American TV networks, state-run networks in China are worried that entertainment is migrating to the Web and that young people are souring on television. So they are trying to jazz up their offerings with reality shows or programs modeled on “American Idol.”
 Sometimes, though, network news divisions get even by investigating the follies of their Web competitors.
 In 2008, for instance, China Central Television — the biggest state-run network — ran an exposé on how Baidu accepted money to bolster the search results of unlicensed medical companies.
 Baidu reviewed its policies, but also cleverly managed its way through the scandal by paying more than $5 million to be a sponsor of the state network and by courting the Chinese press.
 Several Chinese journalists say that soon after Baidu suffered bad publicity, the company offered to fly a group of journalists to Hong Kong for a leisurely weekend at a luxury hotel.
 A spokeswoman for Baidu declined to comment on the Hong Kong press outing, but media coverage of Baidu improved.
 Google’s late start in China made it difficult to keep pace with Chinese competitors, who were constantly rolling out new things to appeal to young Web users.
 Analysts say Microsoft’s new search engine, Bing, also has little chance of succeeding. Although Microsoft has spent years building a presence in China and working with the Chinese government, the company’s online offerings have fared poorly.
 “I don’t think Bing will come even close to Baidu,” said Lu Bowang, president of China IntelliConsulting in Beijing. A Microsoft spokesman declined to comment on Bing’s China strategy.
 Mr. Li, the Shanghai Maritime University student, says he surfs the Web to find or build his own community. A shy person with no siblings, he now has 300 online buddies, and says he turns to the Web to find what he cannot find anywhere else, particularly on state-run TV, which banned some Korean shows years ago.
 “The State Administration shut down a lot of the popular Japanese and Korean series a long time ago,” he says. “So I have to go online to find things like this.”
In the days before the Internet and other electronic distractions, many people of all ages played bridge. Some of the young experts went on to become well known in the bridge world, winning national and international championships. But others chose different careers.
 Bob Mosher, who died early last year, turned his talents in several directions.
 He studied math at M.I.T. and taught at universities in Massachusetts, Illinois and California. After retiring from academia he became a real estate agent in Northern California.
 When in New England, Mosher was a top player, winning more regionals and sectionals than anyone. At the table he took chances, trying to engineer good results. So he partnered players whose bidding and play were reliable.
 He devised Mosher Over No-Trump, which was described in an article by Peter Seal in The Bridge Journal and reprinted in the June 2009 issue of The Bridge World (bridgeworld.com). The paraphrasing of some of the article is with permission of The Bridge World.
 Here is how Mosher Over No-Trump works. A two-club overcall is  natural.
 A two-diamond overcall is different. Instead of showing clubs, it indicates diamonds.
 Two of a major is  you’re getting the idea  natural.
 What does one need to make an overcall? Thirteen cards and a strong stomach.
 Does vulnerability make a difference?
 What do you think?
 Why did Mosher use this method?
 Because it completely flummoxed the opponents. They knew how to handle conventional overcalls. But since almost no one used natural bids, they had not discussed their countermeasures.
 In the diagramed deal from an open pair event final, Mosher was East.
 After North opened one no-trump, Mosher had 13 cards and some length in hearts, so he bid two hearts.
 If South had doubled and North had passed, they would have been very pleased with the result. But not expecting a vulnerable overcall to be made with a balanced hand, and now thinking three no-trump would be unmakable, South settled for three diamonds.
 West led the heart jack. Mosher won with his king, cashed the ace and continued with the heart deuce, a suit-preference signal asking partner, after ruffing, to shift to a club.
 West did exactly that.
 Declarer, of course, assumed that East had the club king. Surely East had a decent hand to overcall vulnerable with only a five-card suit. And if he did have that king, along with two low diamonds (and West an initial queen-third), taking a club finesse now would allow East to win with his king and to lead another heart, resulting in a trump promotion for down one.
 South called for dummy’s club ace, played a diamond to his king and cashed the diamond ace.
 Now the contract was down one, East getting the diamond queen and West the club king. It was the only East-West plus score in the event.
 If this style appeals to you, try it at home first, after the children have gone to bed.
Pacific Avenue isn’t usually a sought-after property in the game of Monopoly, which uses real Atlantic City street names. But Clare Sabatini forced Donald Trump to triple his offering price for her Pacific Avenue restaurant after defeating New Jersey’s effort to take it by condemnation.
With her husband, Vincent, by her side, she did most of the talking as the couple fought a landmark legal case that ultimately barred New Jersey from using the process of eminent domain to close a going business in order to help another going business.
They then stared down Mr. Trump until he paid around $2 million for their Italian restaurant, Sabatini’s, at 2210 Pacific Avenue. The first offer, 12 years earlier, had been $700,000.
Mrs. Sabatini died on April 23 at her home in Ventnor City, N.J., at the age of 77. Her son Stephen said no cause was determined, although she had suffered from heart problems.
“This fight is so aggravating,” she said in an interview with The New York Times in 1997 in the midst of her legal battle. “Sometimes I just have to pop my nitro and get through the day.”
There were hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal fees, which foes of eminent domain abuses helped pay. There was even intimidation: a representative of the New Jersey Casino Reinvestment Development Authority threatened Mrs. Sabatini that she would be removed from her restaurant in handcuffs if she refused to sell, The Associated Press reported in 2005.
There was also humor, although Mr. Trump didn’t think so. Garry Trudeau devoted a week of his “Doonesbury” comic strip to a story line that featured a long-haired, baggy-cheeked tycoon scheming with the strip’s Uncle Duke character to get their hands on the tiny restaurant.
“Problem: How to get these yo-yos to fold and get out!” the Trump character says.
Mr. Trump responded by calling the comic a “low blow” by “a third-rate talent.” He was traveling Friday and could not be reached for comment.
Mrs. Sabatini eventually developed an affection for Mr. Trump, who during the darkest days of the struggle ordered soup from the restaurant and called her when she was in the hospital.
“Mrs. Sabatini is a wonderful lady and I’m glad we finally made a deal,” Mr. Trump said through a spokeswoman at the time.
Clare Barone, the daughter of Sicilian immigrants, was born in Atlantic City on June 8, 1932. She and Mr. Sabatini both grew up on Arctic Avenue, which did not make the Monopoly board. Mr. Sabatini said he knew at 16 he was going to marry Clare, who was 14 at the time.
Mrs. Sabatini earned an associate’s degree from Atlantic Cape Community College and a bachelor’s degree in education from Rowan University. At around 50, she completed a master’s degree in early childhood education and then worked as a coordinator for the Head Start program.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Sabatini — who was New Jersey’s mother of the year in 2001 — is survived by her sons Charles, Louis, Michael and Stephen; her daughter, Anna Marie Sabatini; six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
The Sabatinis liked to point out that Mrs. Sabatini and four of their children earned degrees from restaurant earnings. “I had to cook a lot of spaghetti,” Mr. Sabatini said.
Mr. Sabatini, the son of a chef, wanted to open a restaurant, and Mrs. Sabatini was eager to start a business. Sabatini’s opened in 1965, and it quickly won a following with excellent veal dishes and succulent clams cacciatore. Mrs. Sabatini greeted and thanked customers and handled finances, while Mr. Sabatini cooked. He called her “boss.”
In 1976, New Jersey voters approved casino gambling for Atlantic City to revitalize its sagging economy. The development authority paved the way by condemning hundreds of properties for the development of hotels, casinos and other new businesses.
In 1993, the authority made an agreement with Mr. Trump to acquire property to allow construction of a parking lot, a park and a limousine-staging area near the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino. In addition to Sabatini’s, a nearby homeowner, Vera Coking, refused to sell, and a jeweler held back on his store. (He later sold; Mrs. Coking did not.)
There were many legal twists and turns over five years, but in 1998, a court stopped the condemnation of the Sabatinis’ restaurant. As a result, they were free to keep it or sell it at a price they wanted.
Finally, in 2005, Mr. Trump agreed to buy the property for a price the Sabatinis said was around $2 million. She said in an interview with The Daily News that it was also a victory for principle.
“I think we were an example to a lot of little people out there sticking up for themselves against the rich and powerful,” she said. “We’re glad we fought that fight.”
As the end of “Lost” approaches  an extravaganza that will stretch from Sunday night into Monday morning on ABC  the natural urge is to join in the final frenzy of speculation. Who will live, who will die, and what did it all mean?
In recent months “Lost” has felt less like a television series than like a gigantic international parlor game, in which the goal is to find answers to questions that often have no real connection to what’s happening on screen. You need to take a step back, or 5 or 10, and look past this extraneous (if diverting) exercise to assess the actual show and its legacy.
Since “Lost” itself favors oracular pronouncements, here’s one more: The show had one good season, its first. It was very, very good  as good as anything on television at the time  but none of the seasons since have approached that level, and the current sixth season, rushed, muddled and dull, has been the weakest.
That’s a typical television trajectory, especially for shows set up as closed-end mysteries. The difference now is that as “Lost” has hit a new creative low, the attention paid to it (if not its ratings) has hit a new high. But that makes sense: there’s an organic connection between the show’s decline and the particular brand of obsessive interest it inspires.
Back in Season 1, as the survivors of Oceanic Flight 815 explored the island, “Lost” was a beautifully functioning machine. The mystery was intriguing and had an internal logic (the questions were smart enough that the answers weren’t immediately important); the action was well directed; the actors were attractive; the locations gorgeous; the production values high.
But that model wasn’t sustainable. The elaborate mystery on which the show depended couldn’t be maintained at the same level, and the characters and their relationships had been conceived entirely in terms of that mystery; they had back stories rather than lives. (Television history held some lessons: “The Prisoner” called it quits after 17 episodes; “Twin Peaks” was essentially done after one season. “The X-Files,” an entirely different style of show that in its early years emphasized character development and chemistry in its many free-standing episodes, squeezed out four or five good seasons of its nine.)
To keep the story going, the producers of “Lost” resorted to inflation, adding more plot points and more characters at the cost of coherence. A spooky tale about plane crash survivors on a strange island increasingly became a labored allegory about free will and destiny, individualism and solidarity. Mystery began to give way to mythology.
As “Lost” bogged down and its audience shrank  its ratings in recent weeks have been about two-thirds of what they were in the early seasons  an interesting thing happened: a core of viewers emerged for whom the endless complications, which were ruinous in any traditional dramatic sense, were the basis of a new sort of fandom.
In this sideways universe, making sense of the show became the responsibility, and even the privilege, of the viewers rather than the producers. The compromises and continuity lapses and narrative backing and filling that characterize all broadcast network series became fodder for a kind of populist biblical commentary, and the logical gymnastics performed to read authorial intention into every word and image and in-joke began to feel religious in nature. Every question about the show had to have one true answer, and discerning it  or asserting your version of it the loudest  wasn’t the stuff of water cooler chatter, it was blood sport.
 And this new proprietary “Lost” obsession grew symbiotically with things like mainstream entertainment blogs (and their comments sections) and Twitter, until now there is a vast body of shared commentary and speculation that often seems to overshadow the show itself. Why bother writing fan fiction when you can feel as if you had a hand in the real thing? 
It’s clear that the rise of “Lost” geekdom has encouraged fans, and critics who should know better, to celebrate the mythology  the least important element of the show, from a dramatic standpoint  while glossing over things like pacing, structure, camerawork and acting. (With a few exceptions, notably Terry O’Quinn, as Locke, and Henry Ian Cusick, as Desmond, the performances have been undistinguished since the first season, which may have as much to do with the conception of the characters as with the actors themselves.)
And while we can’t know what’s in the minds of the executive producers Carlton Cuse and Damon Lindelof, they’ve devoted a lot of screen time in Season 6 to providing the fans with answers (when they haven’t been introducing new questions). Some fans, though, might have been happy to make do with fewer answers if it meant they could have a simpler, easier to follow, more exciting final season.
In fact, the scenes set in Los Angeles in the alternate timeline Mr. Cuse and Mr. Lindelof concocted for this season  blasted by the commentariat because they haven’t yet yielded up their secrets  have been more stylish and interesting to watch than the island scenes that have focused on resolving the outstanding plot points.
Among the best evidence that something new is happening with “Lost” is the fact that so many people, if their online comments are true, will be willing to change their judgment of the entire series based solely on how well the final two-and-a-half-hour episode satisfies their need for answers. Forget the first 119 hours  if you don’t tell me what happened to Walt, none of it will have mattered.
Similarly revealing is the carping over whether Mr. Cuse and Mr. Lindelof knew from the start where they were going to take their story. It’s a meaningless question with regard to evaluating the show  all that matters is what they have actually put on screen. But that would mean paying attention to the show itself, rather than your feelings about the show.
The contract between author and audience is being rewritten throughout our culture. Certainly we have always expected the satisfaction of resolution and revelation in our fictional narratives, but we had to let creators provide it on their own terms and then judge the overall result. “Lost” is a sign that that’s not so true anymore, at least with regard to television. Now that the public conversation about how a work should play out can be louder, and have greater impact, than the work itself, the conversation will inevitably begin to shape the work in ways that earlier television producers  or, say, Charles Dickens  never had to reckon with. 
 “Lost” has turned fans into critics and critics, including this one, into semiprofessional fans, and in both cases you can sense that some exhaustion has set in. The mood among many of the show’s followers as they confront Sunday’s finale seems to be a mixture of regret and relief. Whatever happens to Jack and Kate and Sawyer on Sunday night, we’re getting off the island.
THE BASICS
Donald Trump’s first hotel in lower Manhattan has been nothing if not controversial. Community residents tried to block construction of the 46-story Trump SoHo, claiming it would tower over everything around it. It does, which is why the views from the upper floors  west to the Hudson River or east across Lower Manhattan  are exceptional. The lobby and bar, designed by the Rockwell Group, with dark wood and dark leather, are not as gaudy as one might expect from a Trump property. The rooms, however, feel less adventurous than the ones Rockwell designed for the Andaz Wall Street, a new hotel farther downtown. Perhaps that’s because all 391 rooms are also condominiums, which means they need to appeal to the kind of buyer willing to pay more than $1.2 million per unit. 
LOCATION 
Despite the name, this isn’t really SoHo. More like NoHoTu  North of the Holland Tunnel  and there’s a constant parade of tunnel traffic along Varick Street. The front door itself is on an unlovely section of Spring Street. Still, the nice parts of SoHo, and much of TriBeCa and Greenwich Village, are in easy walking distance.
THE ROOM
My room had lots of handsome Art Deco-derived furniture. The bed, beneath a huge dark leather headboard, was supercomfortable and offered views of the Hudson River through the floor-to-ceiling windows. One nice touch: You can control the lights, the drapes, the heating and the air-conditioning using the TV’s remote control. The hotel is nonsmoking, but, oddly, as our noses repeatedly informed us, someone was smoking cigarettes in a neighboring room. On a windy night in May, the building creaked like the floorboards of a haunted house.
THE BATHROOM
Very large, almost a bathroom suite, done up in highly veined gray marble. The toilet is in its own room, the shower is a large glass booth and the tub a luxurious soaker against the floor-to-ceiling windows. The spare, copper-colored shower and sink hardware, designed by Rockwell Group, was gorgeous.
AMENITIES
Quattro Gastronomia Italiana, the ground-floor Northern Italian restaurant, is handsome and popular. And Kastel, the cavernous bar (with its own street entrance), offers bottle service and D.J.’s until the wee hours. Much quieter is the second-floor library, a stylish room overlooking the lobby, amply supplied with art and architecture books from Taschen. Right now, there’s a very small fitness center; guests are offered passes to a New York Sports Club a couple of blocks away. A rooftop pool and bar, and a spa with a larger health club, are expected to open this summer.
ROOM SERVICE
We ordered breakfast at 6 a.m.; it arrived at 6:30. Both dishes  a “Quattro omelet” with tomatoes, zucchini, basil and mozzarella, and “Italian toast” (a version of French toast made with pandoro)  were excellent but pricey ($55 for the two). The wonderful Nespresso Cube single-cup coffee maker in the room meant we didn’t have to pay for coffee.
THE BOTTOM LINE
 We were lucky to snag a room at $299 in early May; the hotel commands as much as $599 some nights. At that price, ask for a room with a great view, and hope it isn’t windy.
 Trump SoHo, 246 Spring Street (Varick Street); (212) 842-5500; trumpsohohotel.com.
ON Thursday morning, BP tried to communicate with its nearly 12,000 followers on Twitter that something promising may have happened in the Gulf of Mexico, where its oil well has been gushing out of control for more than a month: “Admiral Allen shares the ‘good news’ of the successful LMRP riser cutting and outlines the next steps on @CNN.”
Not exactly a bold piece of public relations. Before you can roll your eyes at reports of yet another breakthrough to stop the spewing oil, BP provides its own quotation marks around the news. Furthermore, the company makes clear it is only reporting what someone (Adm. Thad Allen of the Coast Guard, who is in charge of the federal response to the oil spill) told CNN. 
If you can practically see the corporate strategists shrugging their shoulders as they post that update to BP_America, that may be because BP is overshadowed on Twitter by a much more popular satirical feed, BPGlobalPR, which has grown to have more than 130,000 followers. 
The parody site is updated throughout the day, offering a combination of “everything is going exactly according to plan” P.R. speak, macabre humor and occasional glimpses of genuine outrage. 
 Over the last week, BPGlobalPR boasted of a deal on “blackened shrimp” at BP gas stations, linked to the photographs of oil-soaked pelicans with the out-of-character postscript “warning: truly heartbreaking” and spoke of how “we’ve modestly made modest changes to this modest gulf.”
Beyond its followers, BPGlobalPR benefits from retweeting, becoming grist for other Twitter feeds. On Saturday, this cynical packet  “Safety is our primary concern. Well, profits, then safety. Oh, no  profits, image, then safety, but still  it’s right up there”  was bounding its way across the Internet.

Twitter has been praised for its utility as a microbroadcaster. People from all walks of life  hairdressers, chefs, politicians  use the service to blast out every thought and professional accomplishment to their followers. 
However, when you come to Twitter already with a brand, or like BP, with a tarnished brand, the experience can be bedeviling at best. Spin (or if you prefer, nuance) can be hard to execute in 140-character bursts, but mockery comes in perfect Twitter morsels. Brevity is the soul of sarcasm.
In response to a request for an interview with the creator of the BPGlobalPR Twitter feed, someone identifying as Leroy Stick explained the rationale for the feed, while providing no personal details.
“Satire on its own can’t get bad actors to act better, but it can attract attention and direct people to those actors and their actions,” Leroy wrote in a message on Saturday, one of many e-mail correspondences Leroy has had with journalists. “A lot of people, especially early on, sent me angry messages thinking the account was legit. I like to imagine that moment when they realized it was a joke, and they had to think about what the account actually was and why it existed.” 

Knowing who’s who on Twitter has been a challenge since the beginning: the basketball great Shaquille O’Neal created his own Twitter feed, with the insistent handle The_Real_Shaq, after someone was pretending to be him. The impersonations had become so problematic that Twitter created “verified accounts” last year assuring followers that the person controlling the account was the real deal.
BP_America is one of those verified Twitter accounts, and perhaps for that reason  that, and BPGlobalPR’s over-the-top sense of humor  there should be little genuine confusion between the two among Twitter users. Thus far, BP has not filed a complaint against BPGlobalPR.
A Twitter spokeswoman wrote via e-mail that the company favored an “open exchange of information and ideas between individuals, organizations, corporations and government leaders,” including parody, for which it suggests guidelines. (These can seem a bit humorless, however, like including a note saying, “This is a parody.”) “If a brand or organization feels they are being impersonated or that a parody account does not fall within our guidelines,” she wrote, “we respond to impersonation requests within 24 hours.” 

While satire has always been with us, certainly longer than public relations executives have been, the Internet is democratizing the process, said Miriam Meckel, a professor of communications in Switzerland who is a fellow at the Berkman Center for the Internet and Society at Harvard studying the impact of Twitter and social media services on journalism. 
“What the Internet does is that it provides lots of ways for ordinary people to challenge big brands,” Ms. Meckel said. “You can just put up a Twitter stream and talk about BP brand. If you do it well and in a witty way, you can have 100,000 followers.”
Likewise, she said, spontaneous movements on Twitter can build up brands  whether Apple products or displaced TV talk show hosts.
The quick consensus, the immediate scrutiny, the general impatience comes with the territory. 
BP seemed to know this when its Twitter account first became active, almost exactly a year before the Deepwater Horizon rig exploded. That first tweet was not a discussion of off-shore exploration safety or conservation. Sent April 13, 2009, it was about the food stores at BP’s gas stations offering “free cheeseburger samples on tax day” two days later.
No blackened shrimp was mentioned.
The Obama administration has not always been completely clear about its immigration agenda, but it was forthright Tuesday when it challenged the pernicious Arizona law that allows the police to question the immigration status of people they detain for local violations. Only the federal government can set or enforce immigration policy, the government said in its lawsuit against the state, and “Arizona has crossed this constitutional line.”
There is nothing terribly complicated about this principle, which is based on several aspects of the Constitution, acts of Congress, and Supreme Court decisions over the years. A patchwork of state and local immigration policies would cause havoc. 
As the Justice Department points out in its complaint, the Arizona law will divert resources from the government’s pursuit of dangerous aliens, including terrorists, spies and violent criminals. It will harass authorized immigrants, visitors and citizens who might not be carrying their papers when stopped by the police. It will ignore the country’s cherished protections of asylum and will interfere with national foreign policy interests. (Already several Mexican governors are refusing to meet with their American counterparts in Arizona, a sign of the diplomatic disarray produced by the law.)
The courts have repeatedly made these fundamental ideas clear. A federal court in 1997 struck down Proposition 187 in California, which would have denied social benefits to illegal immigrants and turned state employees into enforcement agents because it was pre-empted by federal authority. (Appeals in the case were dropped.) The Supreme Court has said federal authority can pre-empt state law when the federal interest is dominant and where there already exists a system of federal regulations. The government has done a poor job enforcing its immigration rules, to say the least, but they do exist, and clearly fall under what the Constitution calls “the supreme law of the land.”
Though private lawsuits have done so, the government’s suit does not allege any discrimination or civil rights violations in the law, in part because that case is difficult to make until the law goes into effect on July 29.
The current Supreme Court, fortunately, has not been as active in recognizing state power as was the Rehnquist court, but it is not always easy to predict its direction on a volatile issue like this one. Should the case reach the court, those justices with a constructionist bent might take note of Justice Hugo Black’s words from 1941, quoted by the Justice Department on Tuesday in support of its lawsuit: “The supremacy of the national power in the general field of foreign affairs, including power over immigration, naturalization and deportation, is made clear by the Constitution, was pointed out by authors of The Federalist in 1787, and has since been given continuous recognition by this Court.”
The court has already taken a related Arizona case for its next term. It challenges a 2007 law penalizing employers who knowingly hire illegal immigrants. The administration has urged the court to strike down that law for many of the same reasons it cited on Tuesday, and we hope the court uses that case to undermine the notion that states can set their own immigration policy.
In the meantime, there are steps President Obama can take. He can deny Arizona access to federal databases of immigration status and refuse to allow the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to cooperate with state officials in handling people detained under the law. The government should end the misguided program allowing local deputies to enforce immigration law after taking an educational course. 
Most important, the president can follow through on his recent promise to end the chaos of the immigration system with a comprehensive reform bill. Stamping out unjust laws like Arizona’s is a good place to start.
To the Editor:
I was appalled to read your article about the artist Larry Rivers and the videos he made of his daughters (“Artist’s Daughter Seeks Return of Nude Videos,” Arts pages, July 8).
The fact that New York University is not automatically consenting to give one of Mr. Rivers’s daughters, Emma Tamburlini, the videos in question is callous, inhumane and unconscionable. What N.Y.U. is suggesting is that protecting the privacy and emotional well-being of two women is unnecessary if it interferes with the dissemination of “art.”
To be sure, art is important. But even the loftiest of abstract causes cannot trump the rights of the individual. Child pornography is still child pornography even if made by an artist, and these women were victims.
What good is having such videos in the archive if it is at the expense of basic human compassion?
Sara Libenson Boston, July 8, 2010
WHAT do you look for in an apartment building? Do you prefer brick, or do you hold out for glass? Must it have a doorman? 
How about having your family name emblazoned on the entranceway? 
Donald J. Trump Jr. seems to have gotten over the appeal of that particular feature. He sold his condominium at 220 Riverside Boulevard at Trump Place this month for $1.845 million. According to Property Shark, the apartment has two bedrooms and about 1,450 square feet of space. A representative for the Trump Organizationsaid that Mr. Trump had no comment. 
Public records show that he bought an 1,800-square-foot two-bedroom apartment at the Sovereign  a co-op building at 425 East 58th Street that does not bear the family name  for $1.125 million last year. He also bought the apartment next door for $1.595 million. 
Mr. Trump is an executive vice president of the Trump Organization, along with his brother Eric and his sister Ivanka. In 2005, he married Vanessa Haydon, a model.
WASHINGTON  At the core of some of the major policy fights in Washington these days is a ferocious competition between Republicans and Democrats over which party is the champion of America’s small businesses  a mantle that each side views as crucial to shaping economic policy and winning the November elections. 
 The battle was on full display on Wednesday as Senate Democrats pushed ahead with efforts to pass a bill that would increase lending to small businesses and provide tax breaks, and President Obama visited the Tastee Sub Shop in Edison, N.J., where he ordered a “super sub with everything,” to highlight his party’s small-business agenda. 
 The two sides agree that the nation’s 27 million small businesses will be a big factor in the economic recovery. Beyond that, however, the gloves come off, as Democrats say Republicans are stalling the small-business bill and Republicans say that Democrats will strangle small businesses with higher taxes and heavy-handed regulation  though Mr. Obama, in New Jersey, emphasized that he had cut taxes for small businesses eight times. 
At the sandwich shop, Mr. Obama said there should be no argument. “Surely, Democrats and Republicans ought to be able to agree on this bill,” he said. “Helping small businesses, cutting taxes, making credit available. This is as American as apple pie. Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They are central to our identity as a nation. They are going to lead this recovery.” 
But the tug of war for the affection of small-business owners was a central issue in the year-long debate over major health care legislation, and it stands to be an even bigger issue in the battle this fall over extending the Bush tax cuts. 
 Republicans, with support from the United States Chamber of Commerce and the National Federation of Independent Business, have begun making the case that allowing the Bush tax cuts to expire for the top two income brackets would harm small-business owners, impede the recovery and perhaps even lead to a double-dip recession. 
Democrats counter that just 3 percent of tax returns in the top two brackets show any business income, meaning that most small-business owners stand to benefit from the Democrats’ push to continue the tax cuts for individuals earning less than $200,000 and families earning less than $250,000.
And then there is the small-business bill itself, which has languished in the Senate for weeks. 
With the midterm elections just three months away, Senate Republican leaders see little reason to hand Mr. Obama another legislative achievement, let alone one that would bolster the Democrats’ efforts to debunk the image that the Republican Party has long cultivated as the primary champion of small businesses. 
Democrats on Tuesday evening introduced yet another version of the legislation aimed at winning over Republican supporters. But the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Democrats should only blame themselves for the delay in passing the bill, noting that it was repeatedly shelved to deal with other issues. 
Mr. McConnell also sharply criticized the Democrats’ economic policies. “Spending, debt, regulations, more government  none of it has worked,” he said. “And now they want to raise taxes on the very small businesses that are trying to create jobs.” 
To counter the Republican opposition, Democrats are turning to groups like the Chamber of Commerce and the independent business federation  traditionally Republican allies  in hopes that they will help twist the arms of some Republican senators into voting for the bill. 
The House has already approved a package similar to the one in the Senate, which would extend and expand tax cuts for small businesses to invest and hire, and create a $30 billion lending program within the Treasury Department, to be administered through community banks. 
In a crucial test vote last week, two Senate Republicans, George LeMieux of Florida and George V. Voinovich of Ohio, voted with Democrats in favor of the $30 billion lending program, even as other Republicans denounced it as a mini “bailout” that would encourage community banks to make risky loans. 
 Buoyed by that vote, Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana and chairwoman of the small-business committee, continued to make a forceful case for the bill on the Senate floor on Wednesday even as Democratic leaders struggled to resolve procedural disputes with the Republicans that threatened to kill the measure. 
 “Eighty-one percent of the jobs lost in America were from small business,” Ms. Landrieu said. “If we do our job right,” she added, “this is the bill that will jump-start, jolt, be a catalyst.”
Ms. Landrieu met Wednesday morning with a number of advocacy groups who are supporting her bill and urged them to press Republicans to support the measure. The bill’s fate seemed likely to be decided in a procedural vote on Thursday. 
Democrats say that the Republicans’ reputation as an ally of small business is undeserved, and that advocacy for small businesses is really a way of cloaking efforts to help big, wealthy corporate interests. 
“The American people know one thing: They are the party of big business,” the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in an interview. “All you have to do is look at what they voted against here in the United States Senate. I have nothing against big business, but to think that they are good for small business is a stretch of the imagination.” 
 Mr. Obama sought to take the fight out into the country on Wednesday with his visit to the tiny but popular Tastee Sub Shop, which was cleared of customers as counterterrorism agents patrolled its low roof. 
Mr. Obama ordered a six-inch “super sub”  he declared that at nearly 49 he can no longer eat the 12-inch variety  and sat down at a table with the owner, Dave Thornton, and the owners of three businesses in nearby towns. “We’ve weathered the storm well here at Tastee,” Mr. Thornton told the president.
 According to administration officials the other business owners  of an Italian restaurant, a paper manufacturer and a home energy services company  had benefited from lower-cost government loans and tax cuts. 
NEW ORLEANS  At the Summer North American Championships here, the Wagar Women’s Knockout Teams final finished in the early hours of Friday morning.
 After 16 of the 64 boards, Valerie Westheimer, Disa Eythorsdottir (known simply as Disa), Betty Ann Kennedy, Mildred Breed and Marinesa Letizia were leading by 45 international match points against Sam Dinkin (nonplaying captain), Lynn Baker, Karen McCallum, Lynn Deas, Beth Palmer, Irina Levitina and Kerri Sanborn. The Dinkin team reduced the margin to 6 imps at the half, but Westheimer moved 11 ahead with one session to play.
 The match was immediately tied when Palmer made three no-trump and Letizia failed in four hearts. Five boards later, Westheimer led by 9. Then Sanborn brought home three no-trump while Disa made only two no-trump to gain 10 imps. 
 Dinkin’s lead lasted one board, and Westheimer was 4 imps ahead with three boards to play. The diagramed deal was Board 62. 
 At the first table Letizia (South) and Breed (North) bid one club-one diamond-two clubs -two hearts-two no-trump-three diamonds-four diamonds-five diamonds-pass.
 In isolation five diamonds is a reasonable spot, but not when you run into a 5-0 trump break. Breed went down two.
 In the given auction, Deas (South) opened two clubs, showing 10 to 15 points with at least six clubs. Palmer (North) inquired with an artificial two diamonds, learning that her partner had a maximum with two stoppers outside clubs. Palmer signed off in three no-trump.
 Kennedy (West) led her fourth-highest diamond: nine, spade deuce (encouraging), diamond six. Declarer ran dummy’s club ten. West won with her king and shifted to a spade, South taking East’s queen with her king. South led her diamond king, which held; played a heart to dummy’s ace; and ran the diamond queen to West’s ace. Back came a spade to East’s king, giving this position:
Declarer, needing five of the last six tricks, had five winners  one spade, two hearts, one diamond and one club  but she lacked a hand entry. 
 Disa (East) led the heart jack, putting declarer into the dummy. South cashed the heart queen and diamond jack, then had the option of giving either opponent the lead, using East (with a heart exit) or West (by playing a diamond) as a stepping stone back to the spade jack and club ace in her own hand.
 That was beautifully played by Deas. Plus 100 and plus 400 gave Dinkin 11 imps on the board and the lead by 7.
 On the last two deals Westheimer gained 4 imps on a partscore board and one overtrick imp, but it was not enough. The Dinkin team had won by 2 imps, 125 to 123. 
 In Friday’s semifinals of the Spingold Knockout Teams, Rose Meltzer played Romain Zaleski from France, and John Diamond opposed James Cayne. 
 In the quarterfinals Meltzer needed a game swing on the final board to overcome Aubrey Strul.
 Zaleski, who had defeated Nick Nickell, the No. 2 seeds, by 38 imps in the Round of 16, beat George Jacobs by one imp.
 Diamond won easily against Dennis Dawson, who had put out the top seeds two rounds earlier.
 Cayne was down by 33 imps at half time, but won by 53 against a combined Bulgarian-Swedish team.
 Saturday’s final may be watched live at bridgebase.com, starting at 2 p.m. Eastern time. Results are available at acbl.org.

 The District 3 Summer Regional takes place in Fairfield, N.J., from Aug. 9 to 15. Details are at web2.acbl.org/tournaments/Ads/2010/08/1008067.pdf.
A group of 15 buyers at the Trump SoHo Hotel Condominium New York is suing groups and individuals behind the project, contending that they inflated sales figures in the first year and a half of marketing the project. 
According to the complaint, which was filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan on Monday, representatives of Trump SoHo said the project was “30, 40, 50, 60 percent or more sold”  both in individual sales pitches and statements to the press  but after the offering plan became effective in May, buyers learned that just over 15 percent of the building, 62 of the 391 units, had been sold. 
“They had a concerted and consistent pattern of lying about the numbers of units sold,” said William J. Geller, a lawyer at Adam Leitman Bailey, P.C., who is representing the buyers. As a result, Mr. Geller said, his clients bought units they otherwise would not have. “They never would have signed contracts if they knew only 10 percent of the units were sold, instead of the 50 or 60 percent they were told,” he said.
 These buyers, who have bought six units at Trump SoHo, are suing to have their contracts rescinded and their deposits returned, as well as for unspecified damages and fees. The lawsuit also makes other allegations. 
Among the defendants named in the complaint are the Bayrock/Sapir Organization LLC, which is the project’s sponsor; Donald J. Trump; Alex Sapir; and Tevfik Arif, as well as people involved with sales and marketing, including Mr. Trump’s children, Ivanka Trump, Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. 
 According to Jay Neveloff, a lawyer at Kramer Levin, and an attorney for the Bayrock/Sapir Organization, there are more than 100 contracts signed  100 contracts would represent about 25 percent of the units  but the company decided to report only the minimum 15 percent to the attorney general’s office. 
“Nobody ever said there were only 15 percent,” Mr. Neveloff said, who had not seen the complaint early Monday evening. “It seemed to us the most prudent and conservative way to go.” 
The Trump SoHo Hotel Condominium, at 246 Spring Street, is neither a standard hotel nor a straightforward condominium. Units start at more than $1 million for a studio, but buyers are limited to staying in their units for 120 days a year, and for no more than 29 days in a 36-day period. The rest of the time, the units are rented out as hotel rooms.
SAN FRANCISCO  Data storage used to be one of the more mundane corners of the technology industry. Now it is where an increasing number of tech companies  and Wall Street  want to be. 
On Monday, Hewlett-Packard, the world’s largest technology company, started a bidding war against its rival Dell for the rights to 3Par, an 11-year-old storage company based in Fremont, Calif. 
H.P.’s bid of $1.6 billion, or $24 a share, is 33 percent higher than what Dell offered last week, $18 a share. It is also 149 percent higher than where 3Par was trading before the Dell offer.
“You see deals go in vogue, and we are clearly seeing that now,” said A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst with the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.
Companies need a place to store vast amounts of data: video clips, e-mail, reports and presentations. They also need tools to help them search, shrink, shuffle and otherwise manage it. The makers of those tools, like 3Par, have turned into some of the hottest properties in Silicon Valley.
Last year, EMC, the largest storage company worldwide, trumped its main competitor NetApp to buy Data Domain for $2.3 billion. The lofty price was the result of two months of haggling that added $800 million to Data Domain’s value. The deal was the largest purchase of a technology company backed by venture capital last year.
Storage companies like 3Par and Data Domain are becoming attractive because they come to the rescue of large corporations at a desperate time. The amount of data stored continues to double about every 18 months, said Deni Connor, the principal analyst at Storage Strategies Now.
Keeping track of all that information across hundreds or thousands of computing systems has proved a nightmare, as has working with the data in a speedy fashion.
“The amount of storage needed by these companies is getting out of control,” Ms. Connor said.
Storage experts foresaw this problem years ago and set to work refining techniques for compressing information, eliminating duplicate files and spreading huge amounts of data across cheap computers in practical ways. Data Domain and 3Par, which both went public in 2007, were part of a wave of storage companies that sought to profit from their mastery of new data manipulation techniques.
David Scott, a former H.P. executive and now chief executive at 3Par, spent nine years shepherding 3Par and has ended up as the belle of the ball. The company manages complex data sets across a large corporate network and reduces the number of hardware systems a company must buy. Large companies already buying this technology may find the pitch more attractive with H.P. or Dell’s name behind it. 
“They buy these companies and then put them through their huge distribution channels,” Mr. Sacconaghi said. “They have really been able to expand sales, and the formula is a reasonably proven one.”
With gross margins above 60 percent, 3Par would provide a boost to those of both H.P., at 23 percent, and Dell, at 18 percent.
Storage companies tend to create tight links between software and hardware, which allows them to sell bundles rather than a stand-alone product to customers and to innovate at a quick clip, said Garth Gibson, a computer science professor at Carnegie Mellon University. These trends, along with the importance of data, have helped storage systems outflank computer servers in importance.
“The computers are just providing cycles and have become rather inexpensive,” Mr. Gibson said. “Your data, on the other hand, is really the primary asset in an organization.”
Dell and H.P. have experience adding storage wares to their arsenal. Dell acquired EqualLogic for $1.4 billion in 2007, and H.P. bought LeftHand Networks, a company with similar storage technology, for $360 million a year later.
Dell, in particular, has emphasized the importance of storage as the company tries to rework its business away from mere hardware sales. The hope is that storage software sales will provide Dell with higher profits, while also opening a more meaningful relationship with customers that centers on their information. 
For its part, H.P. last year hired Dave Donatelli, who worked for 22 years at EMC, as its head of corporate hardware, signaling a desire to expand its storage business. 
Analysts have pointed to companies like Compellent, CommVault and Isilon Systems as possible beneficiaries of the storage acquisition wave. Shares of all three companies were up more than 10 percent on Monday on the back of H.P.’s bid for 3Par.
Timing is everything.
I had originally planned to write this column last week, on the ninth anniversary of the terrorist attacks that brought down the World Trade Center, killing nearly 3,000 people who were working in the two buildings that awful morning. The topic is the economics of 1 World Trade Center  the building, formerly known as the Freedom Tower, with one of the most tortured construction histories in New York history  that is finally being erected at ground zero. When it is finished, it will stand 1,776 feet in the air, making it the tallest building in New York.
With an expected completion date of 2013, 1 World Trade Center is the most expensive skyscraper ever constructed in the United States, with a price tag currently estimated at $3.3 billion. By contrast, the spanking new Bank of America Tower in Midtown Manhattan cost about $2 billion. That is pretty much the going rate for building new skyscrapers in New York City. Just to break even, 1 World Trade Center will require rents far higher than the going rate in Midtown, much less downtown New York, where the building is located and where rents are considerably lower. 
Since 1 World Trade Center is owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, it seems fair to assume that any shortfall between the building’s annual rental income and its carrying costs will most likely be borne by the people who pay the toll to cross the George Washington Bridge, or use the Lincoln Tunnel, or ride the PATH rail system, all of which the Port Authority controls. It also seems fair to say that no private developer in his right mind would build a $3.3 billion high-rise office building in a marketplace that tops out at $2 billion. Only a government entity would do such a thing. My plan was to question whether 1 World Trade Center really made sense for the city and its taxpayers.
But I blinked last week. Even nine years later, the events surrounding 9/11 remain so emotional that it seemed somehow sacrilegious to ask tough questions about 1 World Trade Center on the day of the anniversary. Although the Port Authority claims it changed the name from Freedom Tower precisely because it wanted the building to be viewed as a commercial office building and not a civic symbol, it is difficult to rid the building entirely of its symbolism. 
It is, after all, going up on the same hallowed ground where the twin towers once stood. Part of the reason it costs so much is that its first 200 feet are reinforced concrete and steel  designed to deter future terrorist attacks. (Another reason is that it will have a 408-foot spire, allowing it to reach that 1,776 foot mark.) 
But as I discovered this week, I’m not the only one who’s been blinking. It turns out that there are plenty of people, including former New York State officials and New York City developers, who believe that 1 World Trade Center is folly. “An emotionally induced misuse of money,” said one such person. “You can only understand this as a political statement,” said another. “It makes no sense as a commercial real estate endeavor.”
 Not one of these people, however, would go on the record; there was simply no percentage in it. As a result, the notion that a government agency would spend $3.3 billion constructing an uneconomical high-rise in a depressed market has drawn far less scrutiny than it deserves. Better late than never.

When the twin towers went down, New York City lost 10 million square feet of office space. But the initial impetus to rebuild had less to do with reclaiming that lost office space and more to do with showing the terrorists that we wouldn’t be cowed. Over time, however, as the rebuilding got bogged down in disputes over design and financing, it gradually became clear that the city didn’t really need the 10 million square feet it had lost on 9/11. It had a glut of office space. Rents were falling. Especially after the bubble burst in 2007, commercial real estate developers struggled.
Yet there was never a moment when anyone in government was willing to question whether 1 World Trade Center  with its 2.6 million square feet of office space  still made sense. Former Gov. George Pataki pushed the Freedom Tower  a name he came up with  with every fiber of his being. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg never wavered in his support. Former Gov. Eliot Spitzer came into office professing to be more skeptical of the project, but did nothing to stop it.
In those earlier years, the building’s economics were even worse than they are now. In 2006, with no potential tenants in sight, the Port Authority actually negotiated deals with federal and state agencies to occupy parts of the building at above-market rents. In other words, taxpayers were going to take a hit so that the building could have some occupants. Thankfully, those deals eventually disappeared.
Even so, the building’s economics are still nothing to write home about. One World Trade Center is going to cost somewhere on the order of $1,300 a square foot to build, more than double the cost of most new skyscrapers. And because it is what’s called Class A office space, meaning that everything is top of the line, maintaining the building is also going to be very expensive. My real estate sources say they believe that the Port Authority will need to charge $130 a square foot to break even on the building.
But of course the Port Authority can’t possibly charge anything close to that  not in this real estate market or any market in the foreseeable future. The average rent for a downtown high-rise is $55 to $60 a square foot. Even if the Port Authority were able to charge higher, Midtown rents, it would still only be getting, at best, $80 a square foot. 
A few weeks ago, the news leaked that the Port Authority was negotiating with Condé Nast to become a tenant in the building. Because Condé Nast is one of the most glamorous companies in New York, it would be a boost to the prospects of 1 World Trade Center to have it in the building. But it won’t be economical: the Port Authority told me that, assuming a deal goes through, Condé Nast would most likely be paying the current market rate for downtown space  that is, less than half what it needed to break even. It will also undoubtedly be locked into that rate for many years. Luring Condé Nast downtown is going to be expensive for the Port Authority.
Not surprisingly, the Port Authority disagrees with my analysis. It points to the fact that it has close to $1 billion in insurance proceeds that it is using to defray the cost of the building. And it says its break-even number is much lower than $130 a square foot. 
“It is not going to get a typical developer’s rate of return,” conceded Rich Gladstone, the Port Authority’s point man on the project. “But it will be cash-flow positive.” He insisted that the commuters who pay their $8 a day to cross the George Washington Bridge would never have to support 1 World Trade Center. Of course that’s easy to say now, with the building still two years away from completion.
Still, the Port Authority made another recent move intended to ensure the success of the building. It sold a small piece of the equity in 1 World Trade Center  around 5 percent  to the Durst Organization, for a reported $100 million. It is a great deal for Durst, one of the biggest and savviest commercial developers in New York. (It built the Bank of America Tower, for instance.) Its investment values the building at $2 billion, far less than it cost to build, so if it rises in value, Durst gets the upside. And in return for its $100 million, Durst gets to manage the building for the Port Authority, an arrangement that will allow it to reap fees for everything from finding tenants to reconfiguring office space. It is also a deal filled with a certain, undeniable irony, which has not been lost on anybody in New York real estate circles.
You see, Douglas Durst, the company’s 65-year-old patriarch, has been one of the few people willing to criticize 1 World Trade Center on the record. When the Port Authority was negotiating with those government agencies back in 2006, Mr. Durst told The New York Times that saddling “already overburdened taxpayers of New York with the rent necessary to pay for it makes no sense at all.” He even took out advertisements opposing the project.
When I called Mr. Durst this week, he did not appear to be exactly embracing this newest addition to the New York skyline, even though it was going to put money in his company’s pockets. “I’ve always been against it,” he said. “I have always felt that the private sector should develop and build office buildings”  not government agencies. He pointed out that the original World Trade Center, which had also been built by the Port Authority, took several decades to become even modestly successful. But, he added, since 1 World Trade Center was a done deal, it made more sense to have a company like his operating the building instead of the Port Authority. 
“There is a constant need for new office buildings,” he said, in defense of the new building. “The fact that Condé Nast is going to go down there shows that there is demand for it.” As it happens, Condé Nast is currently a tenant in another Durst building, in Times Square, but Mr. Durst insisted that was merely a coincidence. To make the building work, he’ll need a few more coincidences along those lines.
We talked for a while longer about the building and its finances. Mr. Durst said he expected it to become cash-flow positive “by 2018 or 2019,” which struck me as awfully optimistic. Then, before hanging up the phone, he said, “I want to reiterate that, as in the Times Square redevelopment”  another initiative he initially opposed before coming around and making a fortune  “I was against it before I was for it.”
Timing is everything.
At the Buffett Cup in Wales this month, the most successful player for the losing European team was Claudio Nunes from Italy. He won 10.5 points, 1.75 more than Daniela von Arnim from Germany.
 Nunes (West) defended perfectly in the diagramed deal.
 After Bob Hamman (South) opened one no-trump, and Fulvio Fantoni (East) balanced with two clubs, showing both majors, West made a tactical bid, trying to buy the contract in two spades. Two diamonds asked East for his longer suit and implied that West had equal length in the majors.
 Zia Mahmood (North) doubled to show diamonds, then competed with three clubs, which would have made. But South converted to three diamonds.
 At the other table, Sabine Auken (South) had gone down one in two no-trump. To tie the board, the Italians had to defeat three diamonds.
 West started badly, leading a low spade that was won with dummy’s jack.
 Declarer could have made the contract if he had cashed his two top hearts, ruffed a heart in the dummy, taken the ace-king of spades and led his last heart. But South preferred to play a heart to his ace and lead a club to dummy’s king. East won with his ace and returned a spade.
 Declarer took the spade ace, spade king and heart king before playing another club. East cashed his two winners in the suit to give this position:
 South had taken five tricks and was threatening to win four more on a crossruff.
 East shifted to his trump, and South played the three.
 Notice that if Nunes had won with his ace and returned a trump, declarer would have taken the rest with that crossruff. But Nunes defended correctly, covering with his diamond four.
 After winning with dummy’s six, South ruffed the club nine with his diamond king, but West overruffed with the ace and led his ten to pin declarer’s nine. West’s diamond eight took the setting trick to tie the board.
For Tim and Nancy Muzyka, the lure of sandy beaches and crashing waves trumped headlines about mass murders.
The couple, who live in Edmonton, Alberta, bought a waterfront condominium in Mexico, ignoring the almost daily reports of drug-related violence in the country. They paid about $500,000 for a 185-square-meter, or 2,000-square-foot, apartment in Estrella del Mar.
The development, covering 330 hectares, or about 816 acres, is on a stretch of beach on the outskirts of Mazatlán, on the Pacific Coast. “I don’t feel any less secure there than walking down the streets of Edmonton,” Ms. Muzyka said.
Buyers like the Muzykas are rare in Mexico these days. As the government battles the drug cartels amid daily reports of carnage, sales of vacation homes are down 40 to 50 percent from their peak in 2007, some developers say. The violence is the latest in a series of bad news for the resort industry, including the global economic crisis and the 2009 outbreak of the H1N1 virus.
“It’s gone from thriving to you could throw a bowling ball down the malecón,” said Cindy Kidd, who markets fractional ownership properties in Marina Vallarta, a tourist development in Puerto Vallarta.
To reassure wary retirees and vacationers, many developers are adding high walls, iron gates and 24-hour patrols to their developments. Marketing brochures highlight security right next to the pictures of infinity pools and spas.
In some cases, builders sit down for sales meetings armed with the latest crime statistics, which show the violence is largely concentrated in the areas bordering the United States.
“It would be ridiculous to try to hide it,” says Alejandro Yberri, chief executive of Costa Baja Resort in La Paz. “It’s all over the news.” There are signs, however, that tourists are starting to shrug off the violence. After plummeting in 2009, the number of air travelers to Mexico was up 20 percent in the first half of 2010, according to government data.
But hotel occupancy rates remain below 2004 levels, according to data from Smith Travel Research. And it continues to be a tough time to pitch Mexico as a spot to invest in a retirement home.
Buyers today are typically looking for a second home, not an investment, and they are usually already familiar with Mexico, developers said.
“People who are buying are people who have been to the destination at least five times,” said Alex Cuttler, head of marketing and sales for Grupo Questro, a developer in Mexico City that is building Puerto Los Cabos, a marina and residential development in Baja California.
In many areas, Canadians and wealthy Mexicans have replaced Americans as the primary foreign buyers.
“The press has done a very good job of scaring Americans, but Canadians and Europeans don’t seem as heavily influenced,” said Mitch Keenan, director of Mexico International Real Estate, a property agency in Merida, on the north coast of Yucatán State.
Sanda Krslak and Steve Lemire of Vancouver paid about 235,000 Canadian dollars, or $228,000, for a two-bedroom, 242-square-meter house in Merida. They fell in love with the city, wandering the old streets at night. “We never felt uncomfortable,” Ms. Krslak said. “The No.1 reason we decided was because the crime rate here is almost nonexistent.”
The Mexico Tourism Board has announced a $55 million campaign to promote Mexico to North American tourists, using the phrase “Mexico: The Place You Thought You Knew.” But many developers said they did not believe the effort went far enough to counter the headlines.
Several developers are forming their own coalition to promote the country as a safe destination. “They need to make the differentiation that not all Mexico is violent,” said J. Patrick Butler, chairman of Club Acquisition, a resort developer based in Aurora, Colorado.
One of Mr. Butler’s projects, El Dorado Ranch, is in San Felipe, 200 kilometers south of the U.S. border, in Baja California. The retirement and second-home project covers about 81,000 hectares on the Sea of Cortez, in an area that has seen little violence.
But Mr. Butler has increased security, including an arrangement with the police to add patrols. And he has dropped prices about 15 percent on home lots, which cost about $40,000 for 1,000 square meters, or a quarter acre. 
In sales pitches Mr. Butler usually stresses the value of Mexican property, which is often less expensive than comparable areas in Central America and the Caribbean. “We try to point out the positives, the cost of living, the quality of life,” Mr. Butler said.
Although many developers continue to struggle, Mr. Butler has seen an uptick in activity. In San Felipe, he said, he has sold 25 lots in the past 90 days. 
In Puerto Escondido, on the Pacific Coast, Cary Mullen said he sold 15 apartments at his Vivo Resorts Palmarito in the past year, with three sales pending. Units in the project, which is in the early stages of construction, usually sell for $250,000 to $300,000, with studios priced at $60,000, he said.
Puerto Escondido is a quiet town on the southwest coast, well known among surfers, but Mr. Mullen, a former member of the Canadian Olympic ski team, prefers to raise the violence issue early in sales discussions. “Until you talk about it, they can’t hear anything else,” Mr. Mullen said.
The former N.B.A. all-star center Dikembe Mutombo, who has invested millions in philanthropic causes in his native country, Congo, is selling his $4.5 million apartment at Trump Place. It is being listed by Heather E. Stein of Brown Harris Stevens. 
The three-bedroom three-bathroom condominium, at 220 Riverside Boulevard between 70th and 71st Streets, is on the 42nd floor of the 49-story building and has about 1,900 square feet. Mr. Mutombo, who played at Georgetown University and last played for the Houston Rockets, retired from the game after 18 seasons in 2009 after sustaining a knee injury in the first round of that year’s National Basketball Association playoffs. 
Since 1997, through a charitable foundation, Mr. Mutombo  whose humanitarian efforts to aid in Africa’s health crisis have been recognized by Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush  has invested in a 300-bed hospital and research center in a deeply impoverished section of Congo’s capital city, Kinshasa. Before that, the foundation had shipped to the country the city’s first working ambulance, huge supplies of medicine and medical equipment. He has also worked with the singer Bono on global efforts to fight AIDS in impoverished countries. 
THE Yankee shortstop Derek Jeter’s digs at Trump World Tower, with over 5,400 square feet of space and now on the market for $20 million, may be fit for a king. But a Saudi prince looking into buying a condominium in that building, near the United Nations, felt that the floor  described as being on the 88th but actually on the 70th  wasn’t high enough. 
So the prince made an offer recently on another apartment for sale in the tower, a sprawling penthouse on the top floor, listed as the 90th, and with an asking price of $34.5 million. The broker on the listing, Dolly Lenz of Prudential Douglas Elliman, said that the prince  whose name she declined to disclose  could not fathom the idea that anyone might live above him. 
Ms. Lenz also declined to discuss the specifics of the offer.
Whatever the discrepancy between the number on the button in the elevator and the true floor, the four-bedroom five-and-a-half-bath penthouse is high enough to make one feel that he or she is flying in a plane above Manhattan. 
The owners, Robin Cofer, a former ballerina and freelance choreographer, and Dominick D’Alleva, a lawyer and real estate investor, said they had become accustomed to the ear-popping that occurs as they ascend to their condominium, which has 5,500 square feet of space. They are selling because they want to move downtown, closer to Mr. D’Alleva’s business offices. (He owns the restaurants Home and Risotteria, as well as Sway Lounge, a nightclub, for which Ms. Cofer is choreographing an upcoming burlesque show.) 
Ms. Cofer says that wherever the couple move, she doesn’t want to budge on ceiling height, after four years of living in the penthouse and relishing the roughly 20-foot ceilings. It also has at least 14 closets (she said she had lost closet count).
Looking out the floor-to-ceiling windows, which provide 360-degree views of the city  and beyond, with the panorama stretching out to the ocean  Ms. Cofer, who teaches yoga in a placid space between the living room and the dining room, said: “The ceiling height and the energy is very special. It feels sacred, like you are floating and sequestered, and you can really take a break from the insanity of the city.”
LONDON — Even in Barcelona, all that glitters is not as golden as it seems.
For half an hour in the Camp Nou stadium Saturday night, Xavi Hernández and Andrés Iniesta orchestrated a comeback against league leader Valencia that was thrilling to behold.
In movement, in ball skills, in sheer pride of performance, these are the standard-bearers of world soccer.
Xavi, the playmaker supreme, is actually nursing an Achilles tendon strained by year after year of overuse.
Iniesta, the scorer of the goal that won the World Cup for Spain in July, is back from his own injuries that made last season touch-and-go for him.
Together they have risen through Barcelona’s academy to become masters of the club’s brand of stylish, victorious play. But they had to summon up a real champions’ mentality to overcome Valencia in their stadium Saturday.
Here, on fresh turf laid to enhance the free-flowing soccer of Catalonia’s favorite team, Valencia had shown its own credentials for title aspirations. Making light of the forced sales of its star duo — David Villa to Barça, David Silva to Manchester City — Valencia did what no other team has dared. It took the game to Barcelona.
“In the first half, we were outplayed,” said Barcelona Coach Pep Guardiola at the post-game news conference. “We were too slow. We could have lost today, because Valencia is a fantastic team, with great players.”
Great players and, under Coach Unai Emery, a great attitude.
Valencia, hammered by bad financial management when the recession struck, had to sell its finest players to survive. No problem to Emery. A coach earns his corn by shopping around for what he can afford, and by improving what is on his table.
Emery’s new players were acquired during a summer when the team would sell high and buy low; one of the pickups included Jeremy Mathieu, a free transfer from Toulouse. Mathieu looks almost too tall and seems too adventurous to be regarded as a conventional fullback.
But he fits the Valencia model perfectly. He strides forward on the left, he delivers crosses with precision and he makes even an opponent like Barcelona’s Dani Alves turn on his heels and give chase from time to time.
At 37 minutes, one of Mathieu’s runs opened the space for Pablo Hernández to shock Camp Nou into silence. The Frenchman Mathieu got behind Alves and cut the ball back along the ground. Pablo’s instant shot went into the net off a desperate attempt by Seydou Keita to intercept it.
Valencia’s counterattacking, its ability to squeeze Barcelona in midfield, and its work ethic in getting to the ball first more than matched Barcelona in that first half.
But with a coach as demanding as Guardiola, with 87,975 people in the stadium baying for goals, the second half was different. Barça quickened the tempo. Its wingers came infield, using their pace and guile through the center. Its entire workforce ran as if they had a metaphorical boot up their backsides.
Two minutes of that undid Valencia’s defense. Iniesta passed to Xavi, then when Iniesta darted through the middle, the Valencia defenders were caught trying to play Villa, their former teammate, offside.
Then with a nonchalance that defied the speed of his action, Iniesta took the return pass from Xavi and cushioned the ball with his instep for the tying goal.
Over the next exhilarating 25 minutes, Barcelona was simply bewitching.
Four times César, the veteran Brazilian goalie of Valencia, made saves against Villa and Lionel Messi. But even such an inspired keeper could not block them all. After a measured cross from Xavi, Carles Puyol, the Barça captain, produced a mighty, unstoppable header to win the game.
The score, 2-1, did not reflect the complete turnaround that Barcelona produced in that second half. Few, if any, opponents would have withstood it.
Yet Barcelona is a club almost at war with itself. In July, when a new board ousted the one that had presided over two Champions League and four La Liga titles in six years, the new president, Sandro Rosell, accused the former president, Joan Laporta, of mismanaging the club’s income to the extent that Barcelona needed to take out a bank loan of €155 million, or about $220 million, for immediate expenses.
This weekend, Barcelona’s members voted by 486 to 439 — with 113 abstentions — to take legal action against the old administration. “The management team that Joan Laporta oversaw until June 30 must answer for their actions before the courts,” read a club statement Saturday.
Laporta and Rosell were once a team. Now Rosell’s board, having employed outside accountants to forensically examine the expenditures, claims that one of Laoporta’s bodyguards spent €53,000 with a club credit card at restaurants, bars and nightclubs.
The acrimony, it seems, will run and run. Let’s hope the style is sustainable.
Meantime, the challenge from Real Madrid gathers strength. Two weeks ago, Real destroyed Deportivo La Coruña, 6-1. On Saturday night it settled for a mere 4-1 victory at La Rosaleda, the home of Málaga.
Two goals each by Gonzalo Higuaín and Cristiano Ronaldo, scarcely reflected the utter domination by Madrid. “We are playing very well, growing with every game,” Madrid’s goalkeeper and captain, Iker Casillas, told reporters. “Now some serious matches are coming up, and we have to continue to rise to the occasion.” Key among those games will be meeting AC Milan at the Bernabéu in the Champions League on Tuesday, and against Barcelona on Nov. 28 and Valencia on Dec. 5.
Real Madrid’s progress under coach José Mourinho has turned from solid to heavy scoring against teams not in its class. Curious, then, that many Madrid players have lined up recently to praise Mourinho, almost as if he feels vulnerable.
Curious too that before the match Saturday, Zinédine Zidane, the former star hired as adviser to the club president, Florentino Perez, told Europe 1 radio station that he hopes to work more closely with Mourinho and be “the link between the team and the president.”
Intriguing. Mourinho, the great communicator, doesn’t usually need an intermediary to the president’s office.
Donald Trump isn’t afraid to put his name on things — at last count, he had more than a dozen licensees making products bearing his name, including steaks and eyewear. But unlike other high-profile types, who lend their names to things they never actually use, Mr. Trump seems to delight in surrounding himself with Trump products. On a recent morning, during an interview at his 26th-floor office in Trump Tower, Mr. Trump was wearing a Donald Trump dress shirt, a Donald Trump necktie and Donald Trump cuff links.
Fans of home décor might not realize that there is also a Trump Home Collection, with furniture by Lexington, light fixtures (including chandeliers galore) by Elk Lighting, decorative accessories by the Imax Corporation and mattresses by Serta.
His latest project is a tabletop collection called Trump Home by Rogaska. It includes six patterns that range from the sort of ornately cut crystal-and-gold combination one might expect from a design bearing the name Trump to surprisingly modern, streamlined pieces that would be at home in a minimalist loft.
I was surprised at how eclectic the collection is. You’re obviously into many different styles.
Well, I have different types of homes. At Mar-a-Lago in Palm Beach, Fla. — which is, as anybody would tell you, the ultimate in opulence — it is very ornate and very high-end. I bought it from Marjorie Merriweather Post’s estate. She had been married to E. F. Hutton, and they built Mar-a-Lago in the 1920s. When I bought it, I inherited an enormous amount of crystal and china. The main dining table there seats 34 people. You can serve 34 people 34 times and never use the same crystal or china. It’s unbelievable. Then I have another house in Bedminster, N.J., where it is more casual. And Trump Tower, where it is more modern. I have different places and different sets of everything, whether plates, china or crystal. I like variety. I never get too bored.
The same philosophy seems to hold true for your furniture collections.
I love High Point. What I don’t love is when I see so much of our furniture coming from China. I look at High Point, and their quality is so much better. It’s as good as anywhere in the world, or better.
Speaking of furniture, I can’t believe you have Platner chairs in your office.
You’re only the second person who knew what these chairs are. I love them. I’ve had them re-covered recently. I buy the velvet fabric directly from the company, and it costs a fortune, but don’t they look great?
They actually do work well in this space. But back to tabletop. How was your table set in your childhood home?
I grew up in Jamaica Estates, Queens. It was my mother and father and five kids, and we were very close. We would have dinners together very often. My mother would make the dinner. We had the same plates for many, many years and the same silverware. After my parents passed away, I kept a lot of the old stuff. It looks a little worn, but it was great. And I have some glass from them, too.
You know, in the old days we said “glass,” but now we say “crystal.” We weren’t into the world of crystal, per se, back then. That came afterwards, with the move to Fifth Avenue.
And now you have your own collection, with a company based in Slovenia, where your wife is from.
Have you ever been there? That part of the world is just beautiful. I’ve seen factories over there, their glass and crystal works are unbelievable. And this is the top of the top. It did help that Melania is from Slovenia. She’s a big star there right now.
You wear your own brand of shirts, ties, cuff links, and you say you sleep on your brand of mattress, too. Will you use this crystal?
I just ordered some for my airplane: the Elmsford collection. I like the lines and the little gold touch, which is something you rarely see in crystal. It’s expensive and complicated to do.
What are you using now? 
At home, I use largely crystal. We also have what I call “glasses.” But we use a lot of crystal. We also use it for display in living and dining rooms where we have glasses on display.
Do you have a dinnertime ritual? 
No ritual, per se — a lot of restaurants. But we do have dinner at home a lot, and while it is more casual, it is at a table in a dining room.
I’m guessing you don’t set the table yourself. 
I don’t. I haven’t set one in a while. 
For information on the Trump Home by Rogaska collection: (646) 755 8470.
LEESBURG, Ga.  The last float in Leesburg’s 22nd Spirit of Christmas Parade, as always, was occupied Saturday by Santa Claus. It is the law, the mayor said jokingly.
Not until this year has Santa been challenged for top billing. Equally popular, if not more, along the one-mile route on Main Street was the guy in the penultimate vehicle who was wearing jeans, cowboy boots and a San Francisco Giants sweatshirt.
“It was good for me to see these people in person to give me a better perspective of how they were a part of it,” Buster Posey, the city’s new favorite son, said after serving as honorary grand marshal.
Other than the scattered Giants garb, including jerseys with Posey’s No. 28, little has changed in Leesburg since Posey, born and still residing here, left in February for Giants training camp as a nonroster invitee. There are still two stoplights. The population has yet to eclipse 3,000.
For Posey, 23, everything has changed, at least with his profession. He began the season as a first baseman with the Fresno Grizzlies and ended it, in catcher’s gear, in the embrace of closer Brian Wilson as the Giants celebrated their World Series victory. Recognition for his handling of the to-die-for San Francisco pitching staff was manifested by the rookie of the year award. 
So farfetched is his tale, much like the one about the parade co-headliner squeezing down chimneys with a sack full of gifts, that Posey struggles to grasp it.
“Some days, I think it’s hard to believe we won the World Series,” he said.
As evidence, there was a victory parade in San Francisco, a slight contrast to Leesburg’s. Attended by a half-million revelers, it was distinguished by the Giants’ Aubrey Huff waving and wearing a thong, the mayor referencing Jerry Garcia of the Grateful Dead and the scent of marijuana.
Saturday, amid the aroma of hot chocolate and the sound of holiday and patriotic music, Posey tossed candy to fellow townsfolk, some clothed in hunting camouflage. “You’ve got to eat all that today,” he kidded one youngster. “It’s good for your teeth.”
Later, Posey said, “This was much more fun, although the one in San Francisco was great.”
The sign at the city limits defines Leesburg, some three hours south of Atlanta, as the home of the country music artist Luke Bryan  who was also invited to serve as a grand marshal. He declined, citing a previous commitment.
For now, Posey is the chosen one, anyway. A banner on the courthouse’s front lawn expressed Leesburg’s love for him in words and an image of a heart. The Lee County Chamber of Commerce produced 250 yard signs that saluted him.
At the end of the parade route, Posey heard a proclamation in his honor and received his second key to the city from mayor Jim Quinn. “A backdoor key,” Posey cracked, then told the gathering, “I could feel y’all pulling for me across the country” during the Series.
Half-filling a small set of bleachers were Posey’s relatives. His mother, Traci, a teacher, said that Posey and his wife, Kristin, were so eager to get home from a post-Series vacation in the Florida Keys that they returned a day early.
Traci Posey and her husband, Demp, who operates a food distribution company, reared Buster and three younger siblings on 50 acres along Turkey Farm Road. A turkey barn sits idle on the property.
Much of the county’s land that is not occupied by farm animals is taken up by baseball diamonds. Lee County is baseball batty, with many young boys aspiring to play on travel teams. Posey fit right in, later excelling at Florida State and becoming the fifth overall pick in the 2008 draft for first-year players.
The Giants, at first, cast him as a catcher but deployed him at first base until he was summoned to the parent club on May 29. He returned behind the plate, and the trade of the veteran Bengie Molina on July 1 cleared the way for Posey to become the first rookie starter at catcher in 44 years to be fitted for a World Series ring. In 108 games, Posey batted .305 with 18 homers and 67 runs batted in.
Posey has no intention of relocating his off-season home, saying, “A big part of what I like here is being able to be normal.”
The locals were forewarned that Posey would not grant autographs Saturday. But, after hopping off the float, he could not resist accepting several scraps of paper to sign. 
The Bobby Nail Life Master Open Pairs at the Fall North American Championships in Orlando, Fla., last month was won by two young Japanese bridge professionals, Kazuo Furuta and Hiroaki Miura. They finished a board ahead of Fred Gitelman of Las Vegas and Brad Moss of San Anselmo, Calif., with Steve Garner of Chicago and Roy Welland of New York third.
The winners defended in textbook style on the diagramed deal from the final session.
South went from one contract he could have made, two spades, into one that he could not.
With strong spades and anticipating South’s plan to ruff spades in the dummy, Miura (West) led the club ace and continued with his second trump. Declarer won with dummy’s queen and played a spade to his king. West won with his ace and shifted to a low diamond, Furuta (East) taking the ace and returning his last trump.
Now declarer had to lose three spades, one diamond and one club for down one.
Plus 200 was worth 43.5 match points out of 64.
•
The Edgar Kaplan Winter Regional takes place from Dec. 26 to Dec. 30 at the New York Hilton Hotel, 1335 Avenue of the Americas, at 54th Street. Details are at the Greater New York Bridge Association Web site.
In the 1970s, Donald Trump devised a plan to rescue the aging Commodore Hotel, at 42nd Street and Lexington Avenue, from the bankrupt Penn Central railroad. The deal, which involved obtaining a generous tax break from the city, then enlisting Hyatt to operate the new hotel, gave Mr. Trump his first major real estate victory.
But while the hotel, the Grand Hyatt, thrived, the partnership with Hyatt splintered. In 1993, Mr. Trump filed a lawsuit accusing the company’s owners, including members of the Pritzker family, of looting tens of millions of dollars from the venture. (The Pritzkers vehemently denied the charges.) Three years later, the Pritzkers bought out Mr. Trump, ending the partnership forever.
So the Pritzkers can be forgiven for wanting to exorcise traces of Trump from the hotel, which is undergoing a $130 million renovation.
“Everything gold and shiny is going,” said Carol Bentel, a Long Island architect, referring to the reflective surfaces, including mirrored ceilings and highly polished metal columns, of the casino-style lobby.
Ms. Bentel’s firm, Bentel & Bentel of Locust Valley, N.Y. (which she operates with her husband, Paul, and two other partners), was brought in by Hyatt to redesign the hotel’s public spaces. At the same time, Looney & Associates, based in Chicago and Dallas, is redesigning the more than 1,300 guest rooms in the hotel.
Their goal is to bring the hotel up to the level of a brand that in recent years has added luxurious properties in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East, surpassing the 30-year-old flagship.
“We have had some catching up to do in New York,” said Farley Kern, Hyatt’s spokeswoman. Ms. Kern said the primary goal of the renovation was not to increase occupancy — the hotel is consistently busy, he said — but to make it seem familiar to travelers who have stayed in some of the three dozen other Grand Hyatts.
Creating a luxury hotel in an existing building is a much more complicated task than building one from the ground up. The Manhattan hotel, built on the Commodore’s 1919 frame, has 138 different room configurations, according to Yvette Edwards, the director for sales and marketing.
Further complicating the job, Hyatt decided to keep the hotel open during the renovations, rather than turn away customers looking for a Hyatt in New York. (The chain’s only other New York hotels are operated under the Andaz brand. It is, however, planning to open two smaller Hyatts this year — one in Greenwich Village, and the other just six blocks north of the Grand Hyatt — and has announced plans for a Park Hyatt on 57th Street.)
So the renovation, which began in March, is proceeding in stages. Ms. Bentel’s firm began by creating Market, a cafe and food store in the corner of the lobby. Keeping it open around the clock means the rooms need not have minibars, Ms. Edwards said. The store is built of earthy materials, including end-grain wood blocks for the floor and granite and concrete for the countertops.
The Bentels then transformed the bar that overhangs 42nd Street. (Getting the city to approve the cantilevered structure, with sweeping east and west views, was one of Mr. Trump’s coups.) But the firm could not change the basic structure, a Tinkertoy-like frame supporting greenhouse-like windows. So it camouflaged the frame with white louvers and installed eye-catching furniture.
The bar itself is a glowing free-form sculpture, designed to look good even from below, on 42nd Street. Tables in the lounge area permit dining at three different heights, Ms. Bentel said.
The bar is connected to New York Central, a restaurant that Hyatt hopes will become a popular destination.
The Bentel firm is well-positioned to take the restaurant upscale, having worked on Danny Meyer restaurants like the Modern and Gramercy Tavern. The Commodore Grill, is expected to reopen as a banquet and meeting facility later this year.
But perhaps the designers’ biggest task is to remake the 13,000-square-foot lobby — in which Mr. Trump once hoped there would be gambling — into a more intimate space. A huge fountain in the center will be reduced in size. In the meantime, said Matt Levison, a spokesman for the hotel, the fountain helps muffle construction noises. The seemingly endless front desk will be reconfigured into pods. Lighting will be indirect, and natural materials will replace some of the glass and metal.
Some surfaces could not be removed, because, as do many 1970s buildings, the hotel contains asbestos. After consulting experts, Mr. Levison said, Hyatt “is leaving the asbestos undisturbed, which is the safest decision and presents no risk to guests.”
For that reason and others, the Bentel firm found ways to “reinvent existing materials rather than discard them,” he said. Existing wood walls will be stained, bronze columns will be painted and marble floors rehabilitated. The lobby is expected to be completed by August. By then, about 1,000 of the 1,300 guest rooms will also have been renovated. (Like the lobby renovation, the renovation of the rooms is proceeding in stages, a few floors at a time.)
The renovated rooms include “refined” materials like leather, cashmere and silk, in shades of taupe, champagne and plum. There are elements lifted from the world of the boutique hotels, like paintings (in this case, by the Norwegian artist Per Fronth) employed as headboards.
Hyatt expects the renovation to allow higher hotel rates. (A recent Web search found rooms for January for $299.) But that depends on the market, and on whether guests embrace the new hotel in an old building.
But for the Grand Hyatt — where parts of the Commodore Hotel’s old masonry facade still hides behind the glass installed by Mr. Trump — such a strategy has worked before.
He saved Central Park’s Wollman Rink and has been vocal about wanting to reopen a restaurant at the Tavern on the Green site.
Now it appears that Donald J. Trump, who hails from Queens, has given some thought to trying to bail out the embattled Mets.
Trump said Tuesday that he called Fred Wilpon, the Mets’ principal owner, about two weeks ago to arrange a face-to-face meeting to discuss the potential sale of the club. The meeting has not been held, said Trump, who made it clear that he would be interested only in buying a majority stake in the team.
The Mets had no comment on Trump’s interest. 
The Mets are in play because their owners, the Wilpon and Katz families, are being sued for as much as $1 billion over their financial dealings with Bernard L. Madoff, the onetime Wall Street guru who received a 150-year sentence for running a vast Ponzi scheme. 
After maintaining that the team was on a firm financial footing, Wilpon said last month that he was seeking a buyer for as much as 25 percent of the club because of the uncertainty stemming from the lawsuit, which was brought by the trustee in Madoff’s bankruptcy case.
 “The Wilpons are friends of mine, and I really hope it works out great for them,” Trump said, referring to Wilpon’s desire to sell only a minority share of the club. “But if anything doesn’t work out for them, I’d be interested in the team.”
Wilpon and his son, Jeff, the team’s chief operating officer, have said that SNY, their cable sports network, is not for sale, a major hurdle to selling a stake in the team, sports bankers say. 
As to why he would not be interested in just a quarter of the team, Trump, referring to himself in the third person, said, “If you look at Trump’s record, he is only interested in things he can control.”
To make the deal more palatable, the Wilpon and Katz families could be offered the chance to retain a role in the team, with Jeff Wilpon, Fred’s son, staying on in some capacity.
According to two people with knowledge of the situation, the former Senator Alfonse M. D’Amato has encouraged Trump to pursue a stake in the Mets. 
Trump is the latest name on a list of wealthy individuals who appear to have an eye on the Mets. Mike Repole, the Queens native who co-founded Glaceau, the maker of Vitaminwater and Smartwater, which he later sold to Coca-Cola for $4.1 billion, has said he would like to invest in the team, although he, too, may be interested only in a majority share. Several bankers and hedge fund managers are also said to be interested.
The Mets have hired Steve Greenberg, the managing director of Allen & Company and a Mets board member, to explore the possibilities of selling a part of the team. A 2010 valuation of the Mets was $858 million, according to Forbes. 
Even if the Wilpons agree to cede majority control, the colorful Trump, who made his fortune in real estate and is often in the news, would still have to be approved by Major League Baseball as the new principal owner. In addition to his friendship with Wilpon, Trump was often seen sitting with George Steinbrenner at Yankee Stadium.
 Among other things, he has connections to the gaming industry, which would violate baseball rules. Trump would have to sell his small stake in Trump Entertainment Resorts, which has an interest in casinos in Atlantic City.
Baseball rules dictate that an owner or officer of a club cannot own or operate a casino. This rule was tested in the mid-1990s when Marian Ilitch, whose husband, Michael, owns the Detroit Tigers, became the owner of the MotorCity Casino. Baseball had to win assurances that Michael Ilitch did not hold any stake in the casino and that his wife did not own any part of the Tigers. 
Trump could be a sole buyer, or part of a group of investors.
 Trump is no stranger to the sports world. He owned the New Jersey Generals of the short-lived United States Football League, has staged championship fights and created a bicycle race, the Tour de Trump. He has been mentioned from time to time as a prospective buyer of a major league baseball team, and he once sought to buy the New England Patriots.
He was also tapped to build an 82,000-seat domed stadium in Queens before talks fell apart when no team would commit to playing there. 
Trump has often been seen in the owner’s box at Yankee Stadium, and his company has also had Mets season tickets over the years. During one game at Shea Stadium in the 2006 postseason, Trump was singled out on the Kiss Cam promotion and, egged on by fans, eventually kissed his wife, Melania, to the crowd’s approval.
But how Mets fans would feel about a possible Wilpon-Trump courtship, long shot that it may be, remains to be seen.
 One of the most enjoyable events in the Greater New York Bridge Association calendar is the Betty Kaplan Teams. This was played last Saturday and won by John Boyer of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; David Moss and Andrew Rosenthal of New York City; and Robert Stayman of New Rochelle, N.Y. 
 In the six-round competition, every player participated in two matches with each of three teammates. 
 This is one of the imponderables of bridge: You have the values for game with an eight-card major-suit fit; when should you play in three no-trump and when in four of the major? (It is even more complicated in a match-pointed pair event, because if the major and no-trump contracts will take the same number of tricks, you want to be in no-trump, because it scores higher.) 
 Obviously, if you know one suit is wide open and you can ruff in early, you should play in the major. (But if that unguarded suit is three low opposite three low, three no-trump will usually be best.)
 A 4-4 fit will provide at most four tricks in no-trump; but if it is your trump suit, often it will produce a fifth winner. Assuming you can draw trumps in three rounds, you can then probably arrange to ruff a loser in one hand or the other to generate the fifth trick. 
 A 5-3 fit gives you more chance of survival against a 4-1 trump break, but also will provide an extra winner in no-trump. 
 In the diagramed deal from the Betty Kaplan Teams, Boyer (South) started with a takeout double, because his hand was too strong for a simple overcall. West responded one heart despite having only three points. Now, though, after Moss (North) advanced with one spade, South rebid one no-trump, promising a good 18 to 20 high-card points. North raised to three no-trump. 
 West led her higher club. Declarer won with dummy’s ace and ran the spade jack, which East did not cover. A spade to the king and ace was followed by the spade queen (East discarded a club), the heart ace and a low heart.
 West realized that if she ducked, South had nine tricks via four spades, two hearts and three clubs. So West jumped in with her king and shifted to the diamond nine. East could have taken three tricks in the suit to stop any overtricks, but ducked. Boyer claimed 12 tricks: four spades, four hearts, one diamond and three clubs.
 At the other table, Rosenthal (West) did not bid over South’s takeout double. North advanced with one spade, South rebid two hearts, and North jumped to four hearts. South did not guess the trump position, so went down one, losing two diamonds and two hearts.
 Plus 490 and plus 50 gave the Betty Kaplan winners 11 international match points on the board.
 So, you will often have to guess well between the major and no-trump. But as a final thought, when you have two eight-card major-suit fits, one 4-4 and one 5-3, it is usually better to make the 4-4 fit the trump suit. As already mentioned, you have a good chance of generating that extra trump trick, and the five-card suit should provide two discards.
 The last paragraph of Saturday’s column generated a few queries. When is a 4-4 fit better than a 5-3, and vice versa?
 The best analysis of trump fits was written by Albert H. Morehead, the original bridge columnist for The New York Times, in his excellent 1964 book, “Morehead on Bidding.” 
 Morehead gives three times when 4-4 is superior to 5-3:
 1. A deal that requires one or more ruffing tricks to fulfill its contract.
 2. A deal that has ample trick-winning power but a possible shortage of controls. Then you are usually gaining discards from the long side suit.
 3. When both dummy and declarer have weak side suits that can be stopped only by ruffing.
 Those cover most deals, but the 5-3 should be preferred on these rare occasions:
 1. When the two hands have an abundance of winners in the other two suits.
 2. When the 5-3 fit is very strong, the 4-4 fit is weak, and trumps losers are the main or only concern.
 Morehead gives the diagramed deal as an example of this last point. It was played in a seven-table expert event. Three pairs went down in five spades, losing two spades and one heart, and three went down two in six spades. Strangely, the result for the seventh pair is not given.
 One pair had the given auction. This was in the days before Roman Key Card Blackwood, but it is a “rule” of regular Blackwood that you should use it only when you are confident that your side has the values for a slam and you are just checking that the opponents do not have two aces. You must be willing to bid six even if an ace is missing. If you are not, either settle for game or make a control-bid (cue-bid) suggesting a slam to partner. (If North-South had been using Roman Key Card Blackwood, South would have also learned that the spade queen was missing.)
 Morehead goes on to point out that after using Blackwood, South should have continued with six clubs, offering a choice of slams, which North would have been happy to pass.
 Note that six clubs is laydown, declarer taking two spades, two hearts, two diamonds, five clubs and one diamond ruff in the dummy.
 As Morehead concludes, six spades is no play whatever the layout, but six clubs will usually survive even a 5-0 trump split.

The New Jersey Bridge League Winter Sectional takes place Friday through Sunday in Woodbridge. Details are on league’s Web site. 
 How many cards make a viable trump suit?
 In the last two columns we looked at eight-card fits. Eight is commonly believed to be the smallest number you need to make a playable trump suit. But seven is sometimes viable, especially if divided 7-0 or 6-1. Six trumps, even 6-0 or 5-1, work much less often.
 However, the diagramed deal must surely be the most extraordinary of its kind. It was played in Florida in 1960. North was Harold Harkavy, a 10-time national champion and highly creative player. South was Bill Root, winner of 16 national titles and two world silver medals.
 Today, North would open one no-trump, and South would probably raise to three no-trump. If that was passed out, East would presumably lead the heart jack, and declarer would take the first 10 tricks.
 West might risk a double, asking partner to find his solid suit. That would usually be a major, but East’s hand would suggest it was diamonds. If he led that suit, three no-trump would fail by two tricks.
 In 1960, one no-trump would have shown 16 to 18 points, so Harkavy opened one club.
 On the second round, North felt obligated to pass. Then, at his third turn, when South was able to invite game with a three-club rebid, North might have cue-bid three diamonds to ask his partner to bid three no-trump with a diamond stopper. Instead, North continued with an imaginative three spades, knowing that two-high-honors doubleton would usually be as good as three low cards.
 North had denied four spades by failing to raise on the previous round. But this strongly suggested three spades. (If this deal arose nowadays, three spades would be even more revealing, because on the previous round he had not made a support double to show three spades.) Root raised to four spades, realizing this was the only possible game.
 West cashed three diamond tricks, then probably should have led a fourth diamond, which would have promoted a trump trick for his partner if he had held four to the ten. However, South would have ruffed with dummy’s spade ace, overtaken the spade queen with his king, drawn the remaining trumps and claimed. 
But West actually shifted to a club, and declarer took his 10 winners.
 The key point of this deal also usually applies to a 4-3 fit: If the defenders can force declarer to ruff a side-suit lead, that ruff normally needs to be taken in the shorter trump hand.
 Although it may get you into the newspapers, do not make a habit of playing in a 4-2 fit  you will typically go several down.
For Georgia’s president, it was a chance to show that his country, the former Soviet republic, is grand enough to attract the world’s best-known real estate developer. And for that developer, Donald J. Trump, it was yet another opportunity to demonstrate that he is world class.
In a ceremony with caviar and wine at Trump Tower in Manhattan on Thursday, Mr. Trump signed a deal to develop the two tallest towers in the republic of Georgia, the former Soviet state at the nexus of Eastern Europe and Western Asia. 
Giving his blessing to the deal was Mikheil Saakashvili, the flamboyant, English-speaking president of Georgia. Mr. Saakashvili is eager to attract foreign investment as he tries to yank his impoverished country from the Russian orbit and align it more closely with the United States. 
Mr. Trump, the world’s first virtual developer, will not actually build the towers. At this point in his career, he is more inclined to license use of the Trump name on someone else’s building than develop a property himself  although he still occasionally erects skyscrapers, like Trump World Tower in New York.
Mainly, the deal is another chance to extend the global reach of the Trump brand, whose brassy gold letters are already stamped on buildings on four continents, as well as a long-running television program, a Scottish golf course, vodka, chocolate, books and jewelry. (The signing ceremony was held at the bottom of the Trump Tower’s four-level atrium, where the surrounding shops include Trump Grill, Trump Bar and a Trump t-shirt stand.)
Any actual construction, if it begins as scheduled in 2013, would be overseen by Giorgi Ramishvili, chairman of the Silk Road Group, one of the largest private investment companies in the south Caucasus region.
The deal, which the partners estimate at $300 million, calls for two projects. The Trump Tower Tbilisi would go up on Rose Revolution Square in Georgia’s capital. The Trump Riviera would be part of a planned Silk Road complex that includes a casino, an exhibition hall and a marina, in the resort city of Batumi on the Black Sea, near Turkey. 
The residential buildings will each contain 100 apartments and rise nearly 40 stories  average by New York standards, but nearly twice the size of the republic’s tallest structures. 
The partnership was born of a two-year friendship between Mr. Trump and Mr. Saakashvili. 
The Georgian president sought out Mr. Trump during a trip to New York after reading Mr. Trump’s 2008 book “Trump Never Gives Up.” The men formed a friendship, and last year Mr. Trump sent an executive, Michael Cohen, to Georgia to consider working with Silk Road on several projects.
Mr. Saakashvili said in an interview that although Mr. Trump was sometimes criticized as being self-centered, he found him "intellectually curious" and knowledgeable about Georgia and its region. “I think Donald Trump has amazing intuition,” he said. 
Mr. Saakashvili himself is known for a gregarious style. Elected president in 2004, he is a staunch American ally. At one point Georgia contributed the third-largest force to the mission in Iraq, after the United States and Great Britain. A street in the capital is named after George W. Bush.
After tamping down corruption in the police, Mr. Saakashvili built a new ministry of interior building, designed by the Italian architect Michele De Lucchi, with an all-glass facade to symbolize transparency. Now, all new police stations in Georgia are made of glass, too.
And he has lavished attention on the resort town of Batumi, where 35 hotels have gone up in the last four years. In 2007, to inaugurate a new amusement park in the town, Mr. Saakashvili and his young presidential staff rode the carnival rides themselves.
In Georgia, Mr. Trump will license his name, and his company will manage the two properties. He will also work with Silk Road to line up financing for the projects and market the towers. Mr. Trump said that so far he had no plans to put his own cash into the deal. "We’ll decide whether or not we want to invest," he said.
Mr. Saakashvili has been eager to draw celebrity foreign investors to show Georgia is again open for business, after the global recession and a war with Russia in 2008 dried up the foreign direct investment that had been propelling the economy. 
Georgians remain poor. The average income, in a country of about 4.3 million people, was $2,455 in 2009.
Before the Russian war, Georgia had attracted about $2 billion a year in foreign investment. Mr. Saakashvili welcomed the inflow as an endorsement of his pro-Western reforms.
During the crisis, Georgia pivoted to work with Middle Eastern investors like the sovereign wealth fund of Ras al-Khaimah, one of the United Arab Emirates. That fund bought the Georgian port of Poti on the coast just north of the site of Mr. Trump’s planned tower in Batumi. 
Georgia has squeaked by with foreign aid donated after the war by the United States and European countries. But with the new deal, Mr. Saakashvili is sure to try to use the Trump imprimatur to encourage other American investors to put money in the tourism and transportation projects he sees as the future of his country’s economy. 
While Mr. Trump is the first large American developer to come to Georgia, some locals have worked with American partners or financing from United States banks, Irakli Matkava, a deputy minister of economy, said in a telephone interview.
Silk Road, which recently opened the Radisson Tbilisi hotel in the capital, expects to open another hotel, the Batumi Radisson this summer. Tourism is a relative new field for Silk Road, which is a major fuel trader and transporter, and also the largest Internet provider in Georgia. The company also has a contract to move American military equipment to Afghanistan from Iraq.
The Georgians seem to have had their eye on the Trump clan for some time. Two years ago, Giorgi Rtskhiladze, an assistant to the chairman of Silk Road, invited Mr. Trump’s Czech-born ex-wife, Ivana Trump, to Georgia to consider investing there. 
She visited Batumi and met with President Saakashvili during her stay. It was a tough decision, Mr. Rtskhiladze said, and although Mr. Trump has yet to visit the country, “we went with the husband.” 
NEWARK — Buzz Williams and the Jukes are an unlikely act to ascend the stage in the second week of the N.C.A.A. tournament.
Marquette was the last of a record 11 teams from the Big East to make the N.C.A.A. tournament field of 68. Then, as all but one of their conference counterparts fell, the Golden Eagles continued to advance in the East Region, perhaps the most top-heavy and tradition-rich quadrant of the bracket. And now they are in the Round of 16 for the first time since 2003.
Led by a quirky coach in Williams and five junior college transfers he affectionately calls the Jukes, 11th-seeded Marquette is the outlier here alongside blue-chip programs like Kentucky, North Carolina and Ohio State, the top overall seed.
“I think all of us being from juco, it makes us work harder,” said the swingman Jimmy Butler, who played at Tyler Junior College in Texas. “It was a notch in our belt going to juco, a bump in the road. But it got us to the place where we want to be.”
As they prepared to face North Carolina on Friday, the Golden Eagles find themselves in the unlikely position of having to prop up the Big East, supposedly the nation’s top conference, after its dreadful opening week. Connecticut is the league’s other remaining team.
Still, despite making its sixth straight tournament trip, Marquette lacks the sustained history of the blue bloods remaining in its region. It has one national title, which came against Dean Smith’s Tar Heels in 1977. Its only other Final Four appearance since then came eight years ago, thanks largely to a talented guard named Dwyane Wade.
In their third season under the tough-minded Williams, the Golden Eagles have reached this point with a different identity, one that compensates for star power with grit.
“I’m not very good on this side of the railroad tracks,” Williams said. “But I get along pretty well with the people on the other side. That’s kind of the collection of guys that we have. I’m very similar to those guys we have. I’m just an older version.”
Marquette’s top four scorers — guard Darius Johnson-Odom, forward Jae Crowder, guard Dwight Buycks and Butler — all started at junior or community colleges. The fifth transfer is forward Joseph Fulce. None have forgotten where they came from. Buycks said he remembered playing one-on-one games with a teammate at Indian Hills Community College in Ottumwa, Iowa, until the gymnasium’s security guard called the coach to ask if Buycks should be sent home. Crowder remembered eating McDonald’s for pregame meals while at Howard College in Big Spring, Tex.
“This isn’t your normal path to the Sweet 16,” Tyler Junior College’s Mike Marquis, who coached Butler and Fulce, said in a telephone interview. “But what a rewarding path. They had to go through the long bus trips and things and learn to adapt.”
Williams is a fiery 38-year-old with a shaved head and a penchant for quoting philosophers and chewing tobacco. 
Like some of his players, Williams came from humble beginnings, having been a student assistant at Navarro College in Corsicana, Tex., from 1990 to 1992. The junior college transfers have a kinship with Williams because of his route to Marquette.
“Unless you’ve been there, you really don’t know what it’s like to be on the juco level,” Crowder said. “When you have a coach who can relate to that, you put your all into that. That’s why we go out and fight every night.”
And so Buzz Williams and the Jukes, who are not yet ready for their curtain call, are improbably still hoping for a spot in the biggest gig of them all: the Final Four.
AMBROSE AKINMUSIRE, a 28-year-old trumpeter on the verge of jazz stardom, has a penetrating gaze, a compact frame and the wary poise of someone at home with his own thoughts. He was bundled up one recent afternoon, surveying his favorite spot to practice: a park bench on a promontory jutting into Spuyten Duyvil Creek, at the northern tip of Manhattan. The bench faces the Henry Hudson Bridge and the river beyond. “I like the way it sounds out here,” he said. When he’s practicing, people usually leave him alone. 
There’s a vaunted place in post-bop for preternatural trumpet virtuosos: your Clifford Browns and Lee Morgans, your Freddie Hubbards and Wynton Marsalises. And by a certain light Mr. Akinmusire (pronounced ah-kin-MOO-sir-ee) fits the bill. His sound is exacting, with a cutting attack offset by a smoky tone. As an improviser he strives for the unexpected, hurtling through precarious intervals. His impressive new Blue Note debut — “When the Heart Emerges Glistening,” produced by Mr. Akinmusire and the pianist Jason Moran and due out Tuesday — is chock full of trumpet heroics, from the slashing jabs of “Far But Few Between” to the mournful susurrations of “Regret (No More).” 
But Mr. Akinmusire, who tends to reject the very notion of trumpet heroics, would prefer that you get to know him for the collective achievement of his band. And that impulse reflects a cardinal conviction among his peer group, one pointedly at odds with the more mercenary and self-aggrandizing aspects of jazz. Call it a postmillennial doctrine, or maybe don’t call it anything yet. Whatever the term for this band-first ideal, informed by myriad sources outside jazz, Mr. Akinmusire is one of the more riveting new artists now bringing it into mainstream circulation. 
“I could make an album where I’m the one who takes all the killing solos,” he mused over lunch at Indian Road Café, a short walk from his practice bench and not too far from his Inwood apartment. “But I just think that if everybody feels responsible for the music, then the music will sound better.” At the suggestion that his album attests to strong leadership anyway, he winced slightly. “Really?” he asked, sounding stricken. “I didn’t know it sounded like my record. I thought that was the beauty of it.”
Mr. Akinmusire’s ace band features the saxophonist Walter Smith III, the bassist Harish Raghavan and the drummer Justin Brown — all about the same age, with overlapping history. (The self-possessed pianist on the album is Gerald Clayton; for the group’s first major tour, which kicks off at the Jazz Standard next week, it will be Sam Harris.) 
One article of faith for these musicians is the idea that jazz is permeable to outside influence, and therefore endlessly in flux. 
“I think the music of today is a hybrid of a bunch of things,” Mr. Akinmusire said. “And when it’s not that, it sounds weird to me. It doesn’t sound honest. How could you be of my generation and not be influenced by pop, or hip-hop? That’s all you hear.” Like a lot of musicians his age, he’s into far-out beat makers (J Dilla, Flying Lotus), high-minded art rockers (Dirty Projectors, Radiohead) and a range of classical music (“some Chopin, Satie, Schubert”). He’s also obsessed with the hyper-articulate harpist-singer-songwriter Joanna Newsom; he said he had hoped to get her as a guest on his album. (It didn’t pan out.)
Then there are the extra-musical influences, which Mr. Akinmusire seemed to invest with no less enthusiasm: writers like James Baldwin, Maya Angelou and Anton Chekhov. He said he had just finished reading “Mastery: The Keys to Success and Long-Term Fulfillment,” by the New Age guru and aikido master George Leonard. “It talks about loving the plateau in development,” Mr. Akinmusire said, with a glint of recognition. 
Raised by his mother in the tough North Oakland neighborhood in California, he experienced jazz as part of a community. “A lot of the old-school local musicians were still alive,” he said, recalling figures like the trumpeter Robert Porter and the pianist Ed Kelly. “So they sort of raised me and one of my best friends” — Jonathan Finlayson, another accomplished trumpet player — “and cultivated us as jazz musicians. They would pick us up from our houses and take us around to the jam sessions, put us on their gigs to sit in.” 
At Berkeley High School Mr. Akinmusire met other sharp musicians, including Justin Brown, who said they shared a level of intensity even then. (Mr. Akinmusire also met his girlfriend, the Iranian-born poet Shabnam Piryaei, there.) One semester of his junior year was spent practicing, as an independent study. “Only at Berkeley could you do something like that,” he said. “If you were a good musician, you were just as popular as a star quarterback.” 
Like a star quarterback he was heavily recruited, fielding competitive offers from several leading collegiate jazz programs, though he had been planning to study math at Stanford. He ended up accepting a scholarship to the Manhattan School of Music, where he bristled against some of the orthodoxy in the program. But he also landed in the same combo as Mr. Smith, finding a quick rapport. “He and Walter are a great pair,” said Mr. Moran, who worked with both in a master class. “They egg each other on in tremendous ways.” 
Mr. Akinmusire also fell in with the redoubtable alto saxophonist Steve Coleman, a mentor to many free-thinking young players. (His compatriot Mr. Finlayson is now a member of Mr. Coleman’s band.) And then came his golden ticket to the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz Performance, a two-year postgraduate program then based at the University of Southern California.
The Monk Institute upholds an ideal of apprenticeship, admitting just six or seven students in each class and putting them to work as a band, with coaching from the likes of Herbie Hancock, the institute’s chairman, and Wayne Shorter, who is on its board. Mr. Akinmusire imposed an extra condition for himself. “I said the only way I was going to go was if all my friends got in,” he recalled, referring to Mr. Smith, the saxophonist Tim Green and the bassist Joe Sanders. “We drove to the airport together. They all got in, so I saw that as a sign.”
Terence Blanchard, then the artistic director of the Monk Institute, said he hadn’t heard about that pact, though it didn’t surprise him. Still, he added, Mr. Akinmusire couldn’t help but make an impression: “His thinking is not limited to what’s normally referred to as trumpet technique. It’s as if he’s always had this idea of what his music should be, and the limitations of the instrument didn’t deter him from that.”
Right after finishing the program in 2007 Mr. Akinmusire entered the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition, another signature Monk Institute initiative. At the semifinals in Los Angeles he played thrillingly, with poise and vision. During a closed-door deliberation by the judges — noted trumpeters including Mr. Blanchard, Clark Terry and Herb Alpert — the only debate involved second and third place. Mr. Akinmusire was the clear consensus winner. “We heard some great trumpet players today,” Mr. Alpert said. “He’s an artist.”
Mr. Akinmusire’s new album bears out that point. (He has a previous album, “Prelude,” recorded in a hurry for the Fresh Sound New Talent label. It’s not at all a bad first effort, but he seems embarrassed by it now.) “When the Heart Emerges Glistening” features songs conceived within the last year or two, in most cases with elaborate back stories. 
For a turbulent tone poem called “Tear Stained Suicide Manifesto,” Mr. Akinmusire wrote a five-page narrative, with dialogue, so that the music formed a kind of soundtrack. (Mr. Moran’s roiling pianism contributes to the effect.) The process was similar for “Confessions to My Unborn Daughter,” which opens the album on a note of dark dramatic tension. “Some of my songs have lyrics that will never see the light of day,” Mr. Akinmusire said, naming “Henya” and “With Love,” two of the album’s luminous ballads. “Most of the time the band members don’t even know.”
Some of that secretive inspiration did find its way onto the album, through “My Name is Oscar,” a track consisting only of Mr. Brown’s furious drumming and Mr. Akinmusire’s dispassionate recitation of a poem. It’s a response to the infamous 2009 shooting of Oscar Grant III, by a Bay Area transit officer. But the drum solo was actually extracted from an unused take of one of Mr. Smith’s songs and repurposed in the studio. That strategy came from Mr. Moran, who adapted it from the revered performance artist Joan Jonas. 
“I said, ‘You’re only going to have one chance to do this first record for Blue Note,’ ” Mr. Moran recalled. “Ambrose wanted to address this incident in his music, and I encouraged him to do it.” 
In any case, the blunt emotionalism of the track almost supersedes its social critique, falling in line with the tonal framework of the album. “I believe that when you wear everything on your sleeve, you can actually interact with people honestly,” Mr. Akinmusire said. Candor means everything to him, so he doesn’t hesitate to divulge that after he finishes touring behind the new album, sometime next year, he plans to move back to California, to be closer to his mother and to live a more balanced life. 
Presumably he’ll find another park bench, though the more pressing issue might be the status of his band. “I think you reach a point as a musician where you can’t go any further alone,” he said, inadvertently alluding to the plateau. “And I think everybody in my band has sort of reached that level. When I’m playing with other people, it’s hard to produce, because I don’t have that relationship. But when I play with my band, it’s endless.”
Donald Trump has run faux campaigns for president before, flirting with the Democrats and independents. This time, he’s playing a conservative Republican. By 2016, he’ll probably be talking about his affinity for the Alaskan Independence Party or the Whigs.
And, of course, he’s suddenly a birther. “This guy either has a birth certificate or he doesn’t,” he said of President Obama. “I didn’t think this was such a big deal, but, I will tell you, it’s turning out to be a very big deal because people now are calling me from all over saying: please don’t give up on this issue.”
It was a perfect vocalization of the New York Street: People are calling me up! Don’t believe everything you hear, unless it comes over the phone.
In a potential Republican field that includes Michele Bachmann, Sarah Palin and Newt Gingrich, it’s hard to come up with a line of attack loopy enough to stand out from the pack. But darned if Trump didn’t manage to find one. 
“If he wasn’t born in this country, it’s one of the greatest scams of all time,” Trump told Bill O’Reilly, who demurred: “I don’t think that’s the case.”
Vote for Donald Trump, the man who can make Bill O’Reilly look like the most sensible guy in the room. 
Trump’s main argument for why he should be taken seriously as a presidential contender is his business success. Has Obama ever hosted a long-running reality series? Owned a bankruptcy-bound chain of casinos? Put his name on a flock of really unattractive high-rise apartment buildings? No!
“By now my name is big enough and equated with the gold standard to the extent that I don’t have to say too much about it,” wrote Trump in one of his books, before going on to say a lot more about it. He is extremely sensitive to any gibes about his business record, which has been up and down over the years.
During one down period, I referred to him in print as a “financially embattled thousandaire” and he sent me a copy of the column with my picture circled and “The Face of a Dog!” written over it.
Trump was one of the first people I interviewed when I came to New York as a reporter back in the ’80s when he was a developer-wunderkind who had started in the business with nothing but a smile, a dream and his father’s large holdings in real estate. 
He’s still promoting, 24/7. Some people believe that his presidential flirtations are an attempt to draw viewers to his TV show, “Celebrity Apprentice.” In it, people who are alleged to be famous compete for money for their favorite charities and what one former contestant revealed was a salary of $16,000 apiece. That isn’t much for network TV work, but since one of this year’s celebrities, disgraced former steroid-using baseball player Jose Canseco, recently tried to make a $5,000 fee by sending his brother to impersonate him in an exhibition boxing match, you have to figure it comes in handy.
“Celebrity Apprentice” is widely regarded as terrible and cheesy programming, but, actually, it has its moments. I recently saw an episode in which a former top model had a serious discussion with a fellow competitor about whether this was the 20th century or the 21st. You can’t get stuff like that on “Mad Men.”
The series is a perfect reflection of Trump himself: an orgy of product-placement and personal aggrandizement. All the contestants, including the ones in their 70s, have to refer to their host as “Mr. Trump.” They all somberly devote themselves to making faux commercials about whatever enterprise has coughed up cash for a major mention that week. Then it’s off to the boardroom where people talk ceaselessly about their performance in order to stretch the whole enterprise into a low-cost, two-hour show.
When you think about it, “Celebrity Apprentice” has a lot in common with the current Republican presidential campaign. Endless blathering. Strange contenders who did something vaguely notable in 1986. And Donald Trump, looking extremely cheerful.
Beyond having the moral fortitude to tell Dionne Warwick she is fired, Trump’s qualifications for being president of the United States include having co-written a large number of books, including “Think Big and Kick Ass” (“People always ask me: ‘How did you get so rich?’ ”) and “Never Give Up.” (“This book is about a subject near and dear to my heart — never giving up.”)
To establish his birther creds, this week Trump produced his own birth certificate, after one failed attempt in which he came up with a document that was too weak to qualify for a passport. By the time he worked things out, we had an entire news cycle devoted to Donald Trump having been born in New York.
Now, let’s try asking to see his tax returns. 
Something predictable happens to the ratings of Donald J. Trump’s “Celebrity Apprentice” on NBC when he hints at running for president: They rise.
And when he talks about President Obama’s birth certificate, they really rise.
Proving cause and effect is impossible, of course. But the coincidence is not lost on Mr. Trump, a man who has erected a real estate and media empire on immodesty and indiscretion.
“Did you get the info I sent you?” Mr. Trump asked in a phone interview with The New York Times late last week. “I told the girls to send you the ratings.” He was referring to a 10-page packet of press releases with headlines like “Donald Trump Is Ratings Gold” and news articles from Politico and CNN that described his strength in recent polls. A day later, he re-sent the clips.
 Depending on your perspective, Mr. Trump’s growing visibility on television and in political news stories over the last few weeks represents the opening phase of a political campaign or the metastasis of a media spectacle. Mr. Trump, who says he is absolutely serious about a run for president, has appeared regularly on Fox News, MSNBC, CNN, ABC and in a wide variety of political blogs. Media outlets that had expected the Republican presidential ticket to take on a fuller shape by now have found themselves with a news void, and in the absence of other news-making characters, many of them are filling it with Mr. Trump.
“Trump and the press have a symbiotic relationship, not unlike bees and flowers,” said William Grueskin, dean of academic affairs for the Columbia Journalism School. “At least in the natural world, you get honey out of it. Out of this campaign coverage, all you get are a lot of empty media moments about someone who is unlikely to run, more unlikely to be nominated, and utterly unlikely to win.”
Mr. Trump insists that he is not disingenuous about his presidential ambitions, even if others accuse him of pulling a publicity stunt. “I’m very serious,” he said. “I’m thinking very, very long and hard about it. I love what I’m doing. And I’m getting a tremendous amount of enjoyment out of running a really great company. My company is extraordinary. But the country is not extraordinary; it’s doing very poorly.”
Mr. Trump has said his announcement will come by June, which — coincidentally or not — is around the time “Celebrity Apprentice” wraps up its current season. A hint of his plans could come during the May 22 finale, he said in the interview last week. “I wouldn’t announce a decision,” he said, noting that NBC likely would not approve of politicking on its airwaves. “I may announce where the press conference will be,” he added.
Mr. Trump is walking a fine line with NBC. If he were to run, he would have to give up his “Apprentice” franchise, he said. There are no federal prohibitions on candidates being on a network payroll, although the Federal Election Commission does have rules cautioning against the use of air time to further a political campaign in some cases. Fox News, which had five potential Republican candidates on its payroll, recently suspended Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum as they signaled they were planning to run.
NBC officials declined to comment on Mr. Trump’s political aspirations.
Mr. Trump acknowledged that if he were to run, he would be walking away from a lucrative and successful business. “It’s a great franchise, and I’ve done a great job,” he said.
Ratings for the show are up this season over the same winter season last year, despite the fact that the “Apprentice” franchise is seven years old. On March 20, a few days after Mr. Trump appeared on “Good Morning America” and questioned whether Mr. Obama was born in the United States — an issue among some conservatives who harbor suspicions about the president’s heritage and religion — the show had an average of 8.2 million viewers, up from 8.1 million for the same episode last year. 
But Mr. Trump received significantly more media attention after he knocked heads with the hosts of “The View” on March 23. The March 27 episode of “Celebrity Apprentice” had an average of 8.6 million viewers, up from 8.0 million for the same episode last year.
“I want him to show his birth certificate!” Mr. Trump said on “The View,” despite the fact that the president has indeed produced a certification of live birth showing he was born in Honolulu. “There’s something on that birth certificate that he doesn’t like,” Mr. Trump added, to sneers from the hosts. “Oh, that’s a terrible thing to say,” Barbara Walters chided him.
Mr. Trump has a history of simultaneously talking up his presidential ambitions while promoting various Trump-branded goods. The first time was in September 1987 when he announced plans for a trip to New Hampshire ahead of the 1988 presidential primaries. A local activist who said he had never met Mr. Trump started a “Draft Donald Trump” movement and invited him to speak to a Rotary Club luncheon. 
Mr. Trump also bought full-page advertisements in major newspapers around the country that said “There’s nothing wrong with America’s Foreign Defense Policy that a little backbone can’t cure.” 
His book “Trump: The Art of the Deal” was published in November 1987 and reached The New York Times best-seller list by December. Synchronicity?
In any case, by the time he appeared at the Republican convention in New Orleans in August 1988, his ambitions had cooled. “Everybody wants me to do it,” he declared then. “But I have no interest in doing it.”
In late 1999, just before his book “The America We Deserve” went on sale, he began flirting anew with the idea of running for president, this time as a Reform Party candidate. He went on the road with his girlfriend, Melania Knauss, now his wife, to meet with constituents. He bashed the presidential hopefuls that year with trademark Trump braggadocio. Pat Buchanan was a “Hitler lover”; Al Gore was an “anointed” leader; George W. Bush had substandard business skills. Mr. Trump said he was for a woman’s right to have an abortion, a position he has since reversed.
By February 2000 he had abandoned the idea of running, concluding that the Reform Party was fraught with infighting that he likened to “general fratricide.” The head of the party at the time complained, “Donald Trump came in, promoted his hotels, he promoted his book, he promoted himself at our expense.”
Just as then, the media now is watching with breathless anticipation. The anatomy of the latest Trump for President gambit also has mysterious New Hampshire origins, just like his 1987 efforts. On Oct. 3, a few weeks into Season 10 of “The Apprentice,” Time.com reported that New Hampshire residents had received phone polling queries of unknown origin that appeared to be testing Mr. Trump’s viability as a candidate. Later that week, Mr. Trump said of his presidential aspirations on Fox, “For the first time in my life, I’m actually thinking about it.”
A group of New Hampshire Trump loyalists started a Web site called ShouldTrumpRun.com; they said Mr. Trump had nothing to do with their efforts.
Then, however, there was little change in ratings for “The Apprentice,” which were only slightly higher in the weeks after news broke about his presidential flirtations. By February, Mr. Trump’s name began to percolate in the news media as a presidential hopeful. He has made headlines as far away as India and Australia. 
Yet Mr. Trump has a well known fear of germs, which he has  promised to conquer before he starts the glad-handing required of presidential candidates. His most serious effort yet at campaigning was done mainly at a distance from crowds — a speech in February at CPAC, a gathering of conservatives in Washington.
His comments about Mr. Obama’s birth have been the subject of lengthy, heated debates on cable programs like “Morning Joe” on MSNBC.
He was a guest last week three nights in a row on Fox’s “O’Reilly Factor.” And starting Monday, Mr. Trump will be a weekly guest on its morning show “Fox & Friends,” which is touting “Mondays with Trump.” 
Whether or not they take him seriously — and some surely do — media outlets have found great grist in Mr. Trump. He makes news as a serious candidate or an unserious self-promoter. Either way, he makes news.
“We are doing lots of coverage of nearly every possible and plausible candidate,” said Jim VandeHei, executive editor of Politico. “Trump certainly falls into that category.”
Mika Brzezinski, a friend of Mr. Trump’s and co-host of “Morning Joe,” where he appears every few weeks, said she takes his candidacy as “seriously as anyone that wants to run for president.” But she said it was her obligation to call him out on the birth certificate issue, as she did on TV last week. “Along the lines of friends don’t let friends drive drunk,” she said, “friends are honest with each other.”
Donald Trump will drive the pace car for the 100th anniversary Indianapolis 500 on May 29. Race organizers said Trump would drive a Chevrolet Camaro convertible to lead the field of 33 drivers at the start. 
To the Editor:
Re “Donald Trump Gets Weirder,” by Gail Collins (column, April 2):
Even before Gail Collins was with The New York Times, she has written nasty and derogatory articles about me.  Actually, I have great respect for Ms. Collins in that she has survived so long with so little talent. Her storytelling ability and word usage (coming from me, who has written many best sellers), is not at a very high level. More importantly, her facts are wrong!
As far as her comments on the so-called “birther” issue, I don't need Ms. Collins's advice. There is a very large segment of our society who believe that Barack Obama, indeed, was not born in the United States. His grandmother from Kenya stated, on tape, that he was born in Kenya and she was there to watch the birth. His family in Honolulu is fighting over which hospital in Hawaii he was born in -- they just don't know.
He has not been able to produce a “birth certificate” but merely a totally unsigned “certificate of live birth” -- which is totally different and of very little significance. Unlike a birth certificate, a certificate of live birth is very easy to obtain. Equally of importance, there are no records in Hawaii that a Barack Hussein Obama was born there -- no bills, no doctors names, no nurses names, no registrations, no payments, etc. As far as the two notices placed in newspapers, many things could have happened, but some feel the grandparents put an ad in order to show that he was a citizen of the U.S. with all of the benefits thereto. Everybody, after all, and especially then, wanted to be a United States citizen.
The term used by Ms. Collins -- “birther” -- is very derogatory and is meant in a derogatory way. Had this been George Bush or almost any other President or Presidential aspirant, they would never have been allowed to attain office, or would have been thrown out of office very quickly.
For some reason, the press protects President Obama beyond anything or anyone I have ever seen. What they don't realize is that if he was not born in the United States, they would have uncovered the greatest "scam" in the history of our country.  In other words, they would become the hottest writer since Watergate, or beyond.
Open your eyes, Gail, there's at least a good chance that Barack Hussein Obama has made mincemeat out of our great and cherished Constitution!
DONALD J. TRUMP New York, April 7, 2011
 
Donald Trump has written a letter complaining about me.
“Her storytelling ability and word usage (coming from me, who has written many best sellers), is not at a very high level,” he penned.
Although Trump and I have had our differences in the past, I never felt it was personal. In fact, until now, I have refrained from noting that I once got an aggrieved message from him in which he misspelled the word “too.”
But about the letter. Mainly, it’s a list of alleged evidence that Barack Obama was not born in the United States. Trump has made this the centerpiece of his faux presidential campaign, falling further and further into the land of the lunatic fringe. I find this a disturbing spectacle — a little like seeing a guy you know from the neighborhood suddenly turn up in the middle of Times Square with his face painted blue and yelling about space aliens.
“Bill Ayers wrote ‘Dreams From My Father,’ I have no doubt about it,” Trump told Joe Scarborough, who reported on Politico.com.
Ayers is the former ’60s radical who became a huge Republican talking point in 2008 because he had once given a house party for Obama when he was running for State Senate. It’s a pretty big jump from coffee and cookies to writing an entire book, but I guess that’s what neighbors are for.
“That first book was total genius and helped get him elected,” Trump continued. “But you can tell Obama did the second book himself because it read like it was written by somebody of average intelligence with a high school education.”
Did I mention that, in his letter, Trump complained about my calling him a “birther” because the word was “very derogatory and meant in a derogatory way”? Obama, of course, graduated from Columbia University and Harvard Law School — if you can believe Columbia and Harvard Law.
“Three weeks ago I thought he was born in this country. Right now I have some real doubts. I have people that actually have been studying it, and they cannot believe what they’re finding,” Trump announced on “Today.”
Trump does not actually seem to have people studying, or even Googling. Still, he sounds very self-assured. This is because before he was a reality-show host, he was in the New York real estate business, a profession in which it is vital to be able to say imaginary things with total certainty. (“I have five other people who are begging me to sell them this property. Begging.”)
Let’s run over some of his arguments:
THE GRANDMOTHER STORY “His grandmother in Kenya stated, on tape, that he was born in Kenya and she was there to watch the birth,” Trump wrote. This goes back to a trans-Atlantic telephone call that was made in 2008 by Ron McRae, an Anabaptist bishop and birther, to Sarah Obama, the president’s 86-year-old stepgrandmother. He asked her, through an interpreter, whether she was “present when he was born in Kenya.”  The translator responded: “She says, yes, she was. She was present when Obama was born.”
It is at this point that some of the tapes floating around the Web stop, which means that the listener doesn’t get to hear the follow-up, which makes it very clear that Sarah Obama misunderstood. The full conversation ends with the interpreter saying, for the umpteenth time: “Hawaii. She says he was born in Hawaii. In the state of Hawaii, where his father, his father was learning there. The state of Hawaii.”
THE BIRTH CERTIFICATE If only Hawaii made its birth records public, and charged people a thousand dollars a pop to look at them, the state’s budget problems would be solved by the conspiracy theorists. However, it doesn’t. If you were born in Hawaii and request a copy of your birth certificate, you get a certification of live birth, which the federal government accepts for passports. Barack Obama requested his in 2007, and his campaign posted it on the Internet.
“A certificate of live birth is not even signed by anybody. I saw his. I read it very carefully. It doesn’t have a serial number. It doesn’t have a signature,” said Trump on “Today.”
The document has the stamped signature of the state registrar. The University of Pennsylvania’s FactCheck.org made a pilgrimage to the Obama campaign headquarters, examined the document, felt the seal, checked the serial number and reported that it looked fine.
THE EMPTY PHOTO ALBUM “Our current president came out of nowhere. Came out of nowhere,” Trump told the Conservative Political Action Conference to great applause. “In fact, I’ll go a step further. The people that went to school with him, they never saw him; they don’t know who he is. It’s crazy.”
This week on CNN, Suzanne Malveaux played Trump clips of Hawaiians reminiscing about the schoolchild Obama for a documentary the network had done on the president.
“Look, I didn’t say that ... If he was 3 years old or 2 years old or 1 year old and people remember him, that’s irrelevant,” Trump responded. “You have to be born in this country.”
Recent polls have shown Trump running second among potential Republican primary voters. I believe this is not so much an indication of popularity as a desperate plea to be delivered from Mitt Romney.
To the Editor:
Re “Donald Trump Responds” (letter, New York Times on the Web, April 8):
When I first read Donald Trump’s long, unedited letter, in which he lashes out at Gail Collins, a respectable journalist and columnist, I was appalled that The Times would ignore so many of its own rules on letter length, decorum and, perhaps most important, the one about letter writers being “entitled to their own opinions, but not to their own facts” (“The Letters Editor and the Reader: Our Compact, Updated,” by Thomas Feyer, May 23, 2004).
But on second thought, I believe that America owes The Times a big debt. Because of the publication of this would-be president’s tirade, America can now clearly see this man’s petty, thin-skinned and self-aggrandizing nature.
Mr. Trump’s irascible embrace of the widely discredited and condemned “birther” movement so early in the presidential campaign has become his own sword of Damocles — one that will eventually shatter his presidential ambitions. 
DORIAN de WIND Austin, Tex., April 9, 2011
The prospect of Donald Trump running for president has sent shivers through at least one highly interested group — and it is not the Democratic Party or political journalists. It is the entertainment division of NBC.
A decision by Mr. Trump to formally declare his intention to seek the Republican nomination could disrupt the network’s plans to broadcast future seasons of his show, “The Apprentice,” because of concerns that other candidates could request equal airtime. 
But no one at NBC has done much serious planning about what to do with “The Apprentice,” because of what two executives cited as pervasive doubts that Mr. Trump would actually enter the race. 
“This is Donald being Donald,” said one senior executive who would be involved in any decision about how NBC handles the show. The executive, who asked not to be identified to avoid any conflict with Mr. Trump, said “any decision is still weeks away.”
The track record for “The Apprentice,” which now mainly casts celebrities as contestants, is so good, and NBC’s need for the show is so great, that it would be a virtual certainty to be renewed were it not for the questions raised by the campaign possibility. 
Several of those involved with negotiating for the show suggested that NBC could order an additional cycle of “The Apprentice” to begin in September. But that would be immediately threatened if Mr. Trump entered the race. He said in an interview last week that he might use the show’s live finale on May 22 to announce a news conference a few days later, at which he would reveal his intentions.
Many political commentators have dismissed Mr. Trump’s chances and have chalked up recent favorable poll results mainly to name recognition — and to his aggressive insistence that he doubts President Obama’s eligibility to be president. Still, doubts of another kind persist.
“Anyone assuming that the reality show host’s interest in running for president is just another one of his publicity stunts would not likely be wrong,” wrote Charlie Cook, the political analyst, who in a column last week wondered whether a “Jersey Shore” cast member would try to run for president next.
Mr. Trump’s statements that he is considering a presidential run have presented a more immediate issue for the news division of NBC. He has remained in the news by giving seemingly daily television interviews and making incendiary statements, many of which have been challenged and contradicted.
One such interview by NBC News came under scrutiny by television critics because Mr. Trump made several statements that had previously been debunked (about Mr. Obama’s birth certificate) without being corrected by the interviewer, Meredith Vieira, though she did challenge him on some points. 
Mr. Trump said in the interview that Mr. Obama’s “grandmother in Kenya said he was born in Kenya and she was there and witnessed the birth, O.K.?” That is a favorite talking point among people who doubt whether Mr. Obama was born in Hawaii, but it has been widely discredited; the full version of the audiotape of that conversation makes clear that the grandmother says the president was born in Hawaii. 
“NBC Nightly News” and “Today” subsequently broadcast a fact-checking segment about several of Mr. Trump’s claims in the interview. Asked via e-mail whether Mr. Trump’s employment by NBC Entertainment affects news coverage, as some critics have questioned, the “Today” show’s executive producer, Jim Bell, said that “Mr. Trump’s work on a show that airs on NBC does not affect NBC News coverage of him, and it’s silly to suggest otherwise.” 
Mr. Bell noted that in a recent poll of likely Republican primary voters by NBC News and The Wall Street Journal, Mr. Trump came in second, behind Mitt Romney. “He’s a potential candidate,” Mr. Bell said. In other polls, Mr. Trump has been first. 
Meanwhile, Mr. Trump’s “Apprentice” continues to perform well on NBC, drawing more than eight million viewers each week, making it one of the network’s most-watched shows. If he decides to formally seek the nomination, NBC would be compelled to rethink any plans for a fall season of the program. 
Networks do their best to avoid the thicket of the equal-time rule, which obligates television and radio stations to offer equivalent time to competing candidates if one gets free airtime. 
In recent years, the provision has affected cable news channels when they have had potential candidates on their staffs as commentators. But entertainers have also been caught up in equal time incidents in the past. 
Notably, when Fred D. Thompson entered the race for the Republican nomination in 2008, he quit his role on the NBC series “Law & Order,” and just to be safe, NBC stopped broadcasting re-runs in which Mr. Thompson appeared.
The three executives who would be involved in talks to renew “The Apprentice” said several possibilities had been discussed. 
One said a new season of the series could be taped this summer, then held until Mr. Trump’s fate in the primaries — or the general election — was decided.Or NBC and the show could substitute a different host for Mr. Trump. It was once the long-term plan to introduce new bosses to run the game. But Mr. Trump proved to have more star appeal than any other likely contender, a fact he has taken glee in noting.
One option would place three of Mr. Trump’s children, all of whom already act as his seconds on the show, at the center of “The Apprentice” in his absence. But executives at NBC worry that even a solution that puts noncandidate Trumps on the air for three months might lead to a demand for equivalent time from another candidate, or his or her children. 
Very few people have the luxury of being freely obnoxious. Most people have to watch what they say for fear of offending their bosses and colleagues. Others resist saying anything that might make them unpopular.
But, in every society, there are a few rare souls who rise above subservience, insecurity and concern. Each morning they take their own abrasive urges out for parade. They are so impressed by their achievements, so often reminded of their own obvious rightness, that every stray thought and synaptic ripple comes bursting out of their mouth fortified by impregnable certitude. When they have achieved this status they have entered the realm of Upper Blowhardia.
These supremely accomplished blowhards offend some but also arouse intense loyalty in others. Their followers enjoy the brassiness of it all. They live vicariously through their hero’s assertiveness. They delight in hearing those obnoxious things that others are only permitted to think.
Thus, there has always been a fan base for the abrasive rich man. There has always been a market for books by people like George Steinbrenner, Ross Perot, Bill O’Reilly, Rush Limbaugh, Bobby Knight, Howard Stern and George Soros. There has always been a large clump of voters who believe that America could reverse its decline if only a straight-talking, obnoxious blowhard would take control.
And today, apparently, Donald Trump is that man. Trump, currently most famous for telling people that they are fired, has surged toward the top of the presidential primary polls. In one poll, he was in (remote) striking distance in a head-to-head against President Obama. Many people regard Trump as a joke and his popularity a disgrace. But he is actually riding a deep public fantasy: The hunger for the ultimate blowhard who can lead us through dark times.
He is riding something else: The strongest and most subversive ideology in America today. Donald Trump is the living, walking personification of the Gospel of Success.
It is obligatory these days in a polite society to have a complicated attitude toward success. If you attend a prestigious college or professional school, you are supposed to struggle tirelessly for success while denying that you have much interest in it. If you do achieve it, you are expected to shroud your wealth in locally grown produce, understated luxury cars and nubby fabrics.
Trump, on the other hand, is utterly oblivious to such conventions. When it comes to success, as in so many other things, he is the perpetual boy. He is the enthusiastic adventurer thrilled to have acquired a gleaming new bike, and doubly thrilled to be showing it off.
He labors under the belief — unacceptable in polite society — that two is better than one and that four is better than two. If he can afford a car, a flashy one is better than a boring one. In private jets, lavish is better than dull. In skyscrapers, brass is better than brick, and gold is better than brass.
This boyish enthusiasm for glory has propelled him to enormous accomplishment. He has literally changed the landscape of New York City, Chicago, Las Vegas and many places in between. He has survived a ruinous crash and come back stronger than ever.
Moreover, he shares this unambivalent attitude toward success with millions around the country. Though he cannot possibly need the money, he spends his days proselytizing the Gospel of Success through Trump University, his motivational speeches, his TV shows and relentlessly flowing books.
A child of wealth, he is more at home with the immigrants and the lower-middle-class strivers, who share his straightforward belief in the Gospel of Success, than he is among members of the haute bourgeoisie, who are above it. Like many swashbuckler capitalists, he is essentially anti-elitist.
Now, I don’t mean to say that Donald Trump is going to be president or get close. There is, for example, his hyper-hyperbolism and opportunism standing in the way.
In 2009, Trump published a book with a very Trumpian title: “Think Like a Champion.” In that book, he praised Obama’s “amazing” and “phenomenal” accomplishments. “Barack Obama proved that determination combined with opportunity and intelligence can make things happen — and in an exceptional way,” Trump gushed.
Now he spouts birther nonsense and calls Obama the worst president in American history. Now he leads rallies that make Michele Bachmann events look like the League of Women Voters. Even angry American voters want some level of seriousness, prudence and self-control. 
But I do insist that Trump is no joke. He emerges from deep currents in our culture, and he is tapping into powerful sections of the national fantasy life. I would never vote for him, but I would never want to live in a country without people like him. 
Benefiting from buzz about Donald Trump’s possible White House bid, the latest installment of NBC’s “Celebrity Apprentice” remained strong in the ratings on Sunday night. According to Nielsen’s estimates, the reality show attracted an average of 8.1 million viewers from 9 to 11 p.m., up from 7.7 million a week ago and tied with ABC’s “Desperate Housewives” (9.9 million) as the night’s top-rated show among viewers 18 to 49. Although CBS’s made-for-TV movie “Beyond the Blackboard” earned slightly more viewers in the same time period (8.5 million), the audience for “The Apprentice” grew by more than 2 million from its first half-hour to its last. But in total viewers for the night NBC trailed in third place, struggling with “Dateline” at 7 (4.3 million) and “America’s Next Great Restaurant” at 8 (3.6 million). CBS led over all thanks to “60 Minutes” (10.3 million) and “The Amazing Race” (9.3 million), while ABC placed second, broadcasting new episodes of “Extreme Makeover: Home Edition” at 8 (7.8 million) and “Brothers & Sisters” at 10 (6.6 million). Fox was a distant fourth, earning 5.5 million for an encore showing of “The Simpsons Movie.”
PORTSMOUTH, N.H. — Donald J. Trump descended from a black helicopter emblazoned with his name, strode across the tarmac and stood for 30 seconds until he made sure the cameras were in place.
“You ready?” he said, a confident smile spreading across his face. “Is everybody ready?”
Mr. Trump’s visit to New Hampshire on Wednesday had all the makings of a made-for-television moment well before the White House produced President Obama’s “long-form” birth certificate. But Mr. Obama’s decision to weigh into the debate over the authenticity of his American citizenship added another curious layer of complexity to Mr. Trump’s arrival here.
“I’m very proud of myself because I’ve accomplished something that nobody else has been able to accomplish,” Mr. Trump said. “I am really honored, frankly, to have played such a big role in hopefully, hopefully, getting rid of this issue.”
Yet throughout the day on his inaugural trip to New Hampshire — in this election cycle, at least — Mr. Trump proceeded to keep bringing up the subject, which he has pushed repeatedly in recent weeks in attacking Mr. Obama. He mentioned it in a stop at the Roundabout Diner. He raised it during a private Republican fund-raising luncheon. And he asked factory workers whether they had heard the news.
“Oh, by the way, I don’t know if you heard? Did you hear?” he asked employees of Wilcox Industries, a military manufacturing firm in nearby Newington. “I am so proud of myself. I got this guy to release his birth certificate. I’m really, really happy.”
But Mr. Trump, who was introduced to crowds here as a business mogul, entrepreneur and entertainment icon, had much more to say during his visit to the state that holds the first primary of the Republican presidential nominating contest. He said that he was “very serious” about joining the presidential race and would disclose his decision after May 22, when his television show “Celebrity Apprentice” ends. 
“I know in my mind, yes. I know what I am going to do,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with WMUR-TV, a destination for all visiting political figures. “If I run, I give up a lot.”
Mr. Trump has flashed his presidential aspirations before: in 1988 (as a Democrat) and in 1999 (as a Reform Party candidate). But his visit, which lasted a little more than seven hours, was filled with all of the requisite stops that presidential candidates make, far more than simply a drive-by photo opportunity.
It is difficult to divine how seriously Mr. Trump should be treated this time. And it is unclear whether he could claim victory on the birth certificate issue (even though his suggestions that no birth certificate existed turned out to be false) and move along to his next pursuit.
There are, of course, other questions that Mr. Trump has not answered. He has not said whether he still supports the idea he introduced a decade ago to impose a one-time 14.25 percent tax on the net worth of individuals and trusts worth $10 million or more. He has not explained his evolution from supporting abortion rights to being opposed to abortion. And he has swatted away inquiries about his own finances, even though he said Wednesday that he would release his records “almost simultaneously of when I announce, if I announce.”
But his presence here alone underscored that he has the capacity to leave his stamp on the race, whether he runs or not. 
He reserved most of his criticism for the administration, particularly about how Mr. Obama has handled the economy, the Libya conflict and the trade relationship with China. He grew animated discussing global competition.
“China is raping this country,” Mr. Trump said, adding that the United States has fallen short on technology and innovation. “OPEC is laughing at us.”
Mr. Trump created not only a media circus on Wednesday, but a rolling media circus. At one point, he inched along in his rented black stretch limousine (with a New Hampshire license plate, Regal 50) and stopped every few feet to roll down his tinted windows to make another point. 
He shook hands along Hanover Street in downtown Portsmouth, a departure from his normal protocol, given his known worries about germs, and he basked in the reception from scores of people who turned out to see him.
“Does anybody else get this crowd? I don’t think so,” Mr. Trump said, raising his hands in the air. In conversations with voters and reporters, he closed with, “Have a good time!”
Several residents who saw Mr. Trump said they were amused, but not necessarily won over.
“I think he puts on a good show,” said Joe Lovell, 69, a retired shipyard worker from Somersworth. “He’s a showman.”
Haven Hayes, 76, a retired university researcher, said: “I can’t see myself voting for him. He’s too much of a playboy.”
Mike Roe, an insurance agent in Portsmouth, said he wished Mr. Trump would drop the birth certificate issue, but added that he was drawn to Mr. Trump’s swagger and his call to increase the global muscle of the United States. “We’ve got to become deal makers again,” Mr. Roe said.
Before entering a cigar shop, Mr. Trump called out: “Did you hear that, press? They are thanking me for getting the birth certificate.” He lingered on the cobblestone streets as though he was leading a parade, telling dozens of admirers, “Come on, we’re going this way.”
“Don’t worry,” he added, “I’ll be back in two weeks.”
LAS VEGAS — Donald Trump, dressed in his uniform of a navy blue suit and pale pink tie, paused in the middle of a casino floor here to crow.
The crowd of people waiting upstairs to hear him speak, he announced, had far outstripped even the rosiest predictions.
“They were expecting 600,” he said, turning to no one in particular. “They got 1,200.”
After a short elevator ride up to a ballroom at the Treasure Island hotel, he abruptly revised both figures. “They were expecting 400,” he said, “and they got 1,450.”
He smiled broadly and stretched out his arms, as if preparing to hand out an award (possibly to himself). “Who else gets this crowd?” he asked.
Mr. Trump — developer, salesman, TV star and casino operator — has a long and rich history in Las Vegas, a city whose ample doses of glamour, swagger and kitsch seem to rival, and occasionally, complement, his own.
On Thursday, he brought his colorful, quasi campaign for president here, offering an audience of local Republicans an evening of punchy one-liners, a variety of expletives and his trademark self-confidence.
Energized by — and clearly still relishing the attention from — President Obama’s release of his full birth certificate, after weeks of pummeling by Mr. Trump, the developer broadened his critique of the White House.
He characterized Mr. Obama’s policy in Libya as incoherent, suggested that the president had failed to take sufficient action on rising gas prices and repeatedly mocked Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul.
“Obamacare,” Mr. Trump said, to loud applause, “is a disaster.”
At times, however, it seemed Mr. Trump was delivering less of a coherent speech than a series of carefully crafted zingers.
On Obama’s decision to host the president of China at the White House: “When people are screwing you, you don’t give them state dinners.”
On the military coalition in Libya today: “France wanted to go in first, and, of course, we have not seen them since.”
On his own topsy-turvy personal life: “I am a lover, not a fighter. You have been reading about that for years.”
Mr. Trump, who said he will decide by June whether he will actually run for president, is no stranger to this city of gambling, showgirls and buffets. He built a hotel-condominium in Las Vegas in 2008 that, perhaps better than any in the world, showcases his obsession with size (it is the tallest residential building in town), wealth (its windows are coated with 24-karat gold) and competitiveness (it is located a block from Steve Wynn’s self-tribute, the Wynn Las Vegas).
Given the ambiguous motivations behind Mr. Trump’s presidential exploration — is it a TV-ratings ploy, a marketing campaign, an ego trip? — it was perhaps fitting that Mr. Trump’s Las Vegas trip doubled as a social call.
Aides to Mr. Trump said he planned to attend a lavish, three-day wedding this weekend for Mr. Wynn on Friday. (Mr. Trump is staying — where else? — at the gold-flecked Trump International Hotel Las Vegas, in the building’s best suite.)
Thursday night’s event oozed with Trumpian excess: there were huge platters of tuna tartare on crispy wonton chips, roast beef tenderloin crostini and lobster medallions with mango salsa.
Guests made liberal use of an open bar, at the center of which stood a four-foot-tall ice sculpture with the word “TRUMP” etched into the middle.
“Very Donald-esque,” said a 50-something man who loaded up two plates with food.
As Mr. Trump entered, the crowd erupted into chants of “Trump, Trump, Trump.”
But Republicans in the room, while thoroughly unified in their displeasure with President Obama, seemed genuinely split over both the seriousness and wisdom of a Trump candidacy.
Mary Fatzinger, the treasurer of a local Tea Party group, said she had already voted for Mr. Trump in online straw polls and was “praying that he runs for president.” America, she said, desperately needed his business acumen and political candor. An avowed Obama foe, she added: “We need to take our country back.”
Sipping a drink from the bar, Tony Liker, a one-time candidate for the Las Vegas City Council, dismissed Mr. Trump’s exploration of a presidential run as a publicity stunt. “I just think he’s trying to hype up his show.”
Even as Mr. Trump upbraided the country’s leadership, he reserved his greatest scorn for a New York landmark. He told the crowd he was tired of returning from Asia, where the bridges make the George Washington Bridge look like a “toy.”
“You come home,” he said, “and we are like a third world nation. You land at La Guardia. It’s broken, it’s dirty. I don’t mind going over potholes in my car. I don’t like doing it in a plane.”
LAS VEGAS — He was savagely mocked by President Obama and the comedian Seth Meyers at the White House Correspondents’ Dinner — belittled as a political charlatan with an unchecked ego and a dead fox plastered on his head. 
But the next morning, Donald J. Trump was not laughing. He was doing what seems to come more naturally: lashing out. 
“Seth Meyers has no talent,” Mr. Trump said in an interview on Sunday. “He fell totally flat. In fact, I thought Seth’s delivery was so bad that he hurt himself.”
Mr. Trump, who appeared unsmiling throughout most of the annual dinner on Saturday night, acknowledged his occasional discomfort (“I am not looking to laugh along with my enemies”) but said he viewed the rough treatment as a measure of the fear he had struck in the Washington establishment. “It was like a roast of Donald Trump,” he said, clearly reveling in the attention, if not the content.
The Trump-centric dinner capped what could only be described as the Week of the Donald — a dizzying span in which the developer and reality television star drove the news (compelling the president to release his full birth certificate) and became the news (after delivering a profanity-laced speech in Las Vegas). 
None of it, however, answered the central questions posed by his White House flirtation: Is it real or, like his hit series on NBC, a reality show? Even a comment Mr. Trump made to Bloomberg News on Sunday — that he had decided to run “in my mind” — created as much confusion as clarity. A top aide, Michael Cohen, said he could still change his mind and nothing was official.
During a lengthy conversation in his 61st-floor suite at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas, amid the Trump-branded room service menus and bottles of Trump Ice water, Mr. Trump provided ample fodder for supporters and skeptics — waxing about foreign policy and his TV ratings, displaying a detailed understanding of the political landscape and a curious insensitivity toward potential voters. 
At one point, he compared his opposition to the legalization of same-sex marriage to his reluctance to use a new kind of putter.
“It’s like in golf,” he said. “A lot of people — I don’t want this to sound trivial — but a lot of people are switching to these really long putters, very unattractive,” said Mr. Trump, a Republican. “It’s weird. You see these great players with these really long putters, because they can’t sink three-footers anymore. And, I hate it. I am a traditionalist. I have so many fabulous friends who happen to be gay, but I am a traditionalist.” 
He said that, should he run, he would offer himself as a “conservative with a big heart.” 
To that end, he said, he would do nothing to curtail benefits for senior citizens, whom he called the “lifeblood of this country.” But he suggested that his biggest objection to Representative Paul D. Ryan’s deficit reduction plan — which has alarmed seniors on Medicaid — was not its substance but what he saw as poor strategy by Mr. Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, in rolling it out. 
“As a poker player, he shouldn’t have put forth such an early plan,” Mr. Trump said. “Anybody who touches Medicare,” he added, “is in tremendous trouble politically. We, the Republicans, have an election to win.”
Mr. Trump, who faces scrutiny from Republicans over his conservative credentials, said he no longer supported two proposals he put forth in 1999, when he last considered running for president: a one-time tax of 14.25 percent on the wealthiest Americans and a single-payer health care program. 
“We had a much different country when I proposed those two things,” he said. 
Mr. Trump spoke knowledgably — and harshly — about Mr. Obama’s health care overhaul and America’s trade policies with China. But at times he betrayed a lack of engagement closer to home, incorrectly stating that only one member of the New York City Council was a Republican. (There are five.)
Mr. Trump, 64, repeatedly found ways to weave the topic of his wealth, and its reach, into the conversation. “Look at that,” he interrupted, pointing to a giant white plane hovering outside the room’s windows. “That’s my plane. How beautiful is that?” 
He also announced that he had just bought a Boeing 757 from Paul G. Allen, one of the founders of Microsoft, and was having it refitted to his specifications. “I was going to buy a 737,” he explained, “then I heard about this one.”
Yet Mr. Trump emphasized that he was ready to walk away from much of his life to mount a bid for the presidency. 
Should he run, he said, he would relinquish control of his company to three of his children, Donald, Eric and Ivanka, who have worked with him for years. He said that his wife, Melania, 41 — who appeared briefly, bathrobe-clad, to say hello during the interview — had not only encouraged him to run but vowed to campaign with him. “She would be great,” he said. 
Still, there are adjustments to be made. The obscenities in his Vegas speech drew criticism: Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, for example, said on Sunday that such language was not presidential. Mr. Trump said he had catered the speech to the largely working- and middle-class audience.
“It was a great crowd and great people,” he said. “But it was also a crowd that loves that kind of emphasis. 
“Would I do it in a different location, would I do it in front of a different crowd, even a different crowd in Las Vegas? Uh, no.”
He said he “rarely” curses. But minutes later, he used a profanity to describe a political consultant who had offended him.
Mr. Trump, an admitted germophobe, conceded he did not relish the idea of shaking thousands of hands on the campaign trail, but said he had become more at ease with the practice.
“I still have a thing” about it, he acknowledged. “Shaking hands is proven to be a bad thing to do for our health.”
He recalled a fan walking out of a restroom at the “21” Club in Manhattan recently, approaching him with an outstretched hand. “Now, I have two choices,” Mr. Trump explained. “Don’t shake it, and here’s a man that for the rest of his life will hate Donald Trump. But I don’t want that. I have a heart. Or shake it. And you don’t know what you are shaking. And you know what I did?” he asked. I shook his hand. And then, I didn’t eat as well, because I didn’t know where his hand was. But I can tell you it wasn’t in a very good place.”
Donald Trump said he would not be the celebrity pace-car driver for the Indianapolis 500 on May 29, calling it “inappropriate” since “he may be announcing shortly his intention” to run for president. The decision shuts down a potential controversy that threatened to overshadow the 100-year anniversary of the first 500. Some race fans complained Trump was too divisive to serve as the celebrity pace-car driver after his recent questioning of whether President Obama was born outside the United States and whether the president was qualified to attend two Ivy League universities. 
For many middle-class Americans, it is the most coveted brand in real estate, synonymous with sky-piercing luxury and can’t-miss quality: Donald J. Trump.
Far from the New York City towers that bear his name, in cities like Tampa, Fla., and Philadelphia, house hunters clamor to buy into his developments, sometimes exhausting credit lines and wiping out savings for a chance to own a piece of his gilded empire. 
But as Mr. Trump, who is weighing a bid for the White House, has zealously sought to cash in on his name, he has entered into arrangements that home buyers describe as deliberately deceptive — designed, they said, to exploit the very thing that drew them to his buildings: their faith in him. 
Over the last few years, according to interviews and hundreds of pages of court documents, the real estate mogul has aggressively marketed several luxury high-rises as “Trump properties” or “signature Trump” buildings, with names like Trump Tower and Trump International — even making appearances at the properties to woo buyers. The strong indication of his involvement as a developer generated waves of media attention and commanded premium prices. 
But when three of the planned buildings encountered financial trouble, it became clear that Mr. Trump had essentially rented his name to the developments and had no responsibility for their outcomes, according to buyers. In each case, he yanked his name off the projects, which were never completed. The buyers lost millions of dollars in deposits even as Mr. Trump pocketed hefty license fees. 
Those who bought the apartments in part because of the Trump name were livid, saying they felt a profound sense of betrayal, and more than 300 of them are now suing Mr. Trump or his company. 
“The last thing you ever expect is that somebody you revere will mislead you,” said Alex Davis, 38, who bought a $500,000 unit in Trump International Hotel and Tower Fort Lauderdale, a waterfront property that Mr. Trump described in marketing materials as “my latest development” and compared to the Trump tower on Central Park in Manhattan. 
“There was no disclaimer that he was not the developer,” Mr. Davis said. The building, where construction was halted when a major lender ran out of money in 2009, sits empty and unfinished, the outlines of a giant Trump sign, removed long ago, still faintly visible. 
Mr. Davis is unable to recover any of his $100,000 deposit — half of which the developer used for construction costs. 
Another casualty: his admiration for Mr. Trump, whose books and television show Mr. Davis had devoured. “I bought into an idea of him,” he said, “and it wasn’t what I thought it was.”
Alan Garten, a lawyer for Mr. Trump’s company, said that, regardless of what Mr. Trump himself or any marketing materials had suggested, his role was disclosed in lengthy purchasing documents that buyers should have carefully scrutinized. But in an interview, Mr. Garten acknowledged that, “without a lawyer, it can be difficult” to understand such documents. He suggested that the housing market collapse, not Mr. Trump, was the cause of their troubles.
“They are people who lost money and are looking for somebody to blame,” Mr. Garten said.
Mr. Trump’s Midas touch as a businessman, sometimes real, other times perceived, is central to his presidential aspirations, which have become increasingly hard for Republicans to ignore, even as some of them cringe at his blunt remarks and boastfulness. In the next month, he is scheduled to visit two key primary-season states, South Carolina and Iowa, as he further tests the waters. “I have made myself very rich,” he said recently, sitting in his palatial suite at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas. “And I would make this country very rich.”
But regardless of whether Mr. Trump ultimately seeks the presidency, his attempt to promote himself as a savvy financial manager who can lead America out of its economic rut is bringing new scrutiny to his own business practices. 
Despite high-profile stumbles, like the bankruptcy of Atlantic City casinos bearing his name, Mr. Trump has nurtured plenty of successful projects, in real estate and beyond: memberships to his golf clubs sell briskly, his men’s suits are a hit at Macy’s, and his NBC series, “The Apprentice,” is a ratings smash. Mr. Trump, in an interview, said the show had earned him well over $100 million. 
Yet in recent years, as his brand has experienced an “Apprentice”-fueled resurgence, it appears that Mr. Trump, 64, has taken an expansive approach to putting his name on products big and small. There are Trump mattresses, Trump ties, Trump video games, Trump bottled water and Trump chocolates (designed to resemble bars of gold, silver and copper.) 
But it is Mr. Trump’s real estate and education products that have enticed many Americans to invest life savings and dreams of quick riches. And it is with these products, according to a string of lawsuits and complaints filed around the country, that Mr. Trump has disappointed his fans most deeply. 
Opening a ‘University’
As the American housing market climbed toward its peak, in 2005, Mr. Trump opened a for-profit school, called Trump University, to impart his wisdom about real estate and moneymaking to the general public. 
In marketing materials, he promised students that his handpicked team of instructors would “teach you better than the best business school,” according to the transcript of a Web video. The same year, Mr. Trump licensed his name to an affiliated program, called the Trump Institute, which offered similar classes.
Dozens of complaints about both schools have rolled into the offices of attorneys general in Florida, Texas, New York and Illinois, officials said. And last year, the Better Business Bureau gave Trump University a D-minus, the second-lowest grade on its scale, after it fielded 23 complaints.
A lawsuit filed in 2010 by four dissatisfied former students, who are seeking class-action status, accuses Trump University of offering classes that amounted to extended “infomercials,” “selling nonaccredited products,” and “taking advantage of these troubled economic times to prey on consumers’ fears.” 
According to the court papers, the university used high-pressure sales tactics to enroll students in classes that cost up to $35,000, at times encouraging them to raise their credit card limits to pay for them. It promised intensive one-on-one instruction that often failed to materialize. And its mentors recommended investments from which they stood to profit.
“It was almost completely worthless,” said Jeffrey Tufenkian, 49, who along with his wife, Sona, enrolled in a $35,000 “Gold Elite” class at Trump University to jump-start a career in real estate. 
Mr. Tufenkian, who lives in Portland, Ore., was especially drawn to what Trump University described as a year-long mentorship. But he said that it amounted to a real estate expert from California taking him on a tour of homes in Portland that he could have seen on his own, for free. 
At one point, he said, the mentor suggested an educational trip to Home Depot, an idea he found comical; at another, he said, the mentor recommended a sales technique (selling the option to buy a house), that several lawyers later told Mr. Tufenkian he was ineligible to perform because he lacked a real estate license. He recalled how, during a much cheaper Trump class on foreclosure, he and his wife were encouraged by instructors to raise their credit card limits, ostensibly in anticipation of investing in real estate, only to have the accounts maxed out with the purchase of the next $35,000 class, a charge mirrored in the lawsuit. The fee, and the resulting credit card interest payments, have wiped out much of the couple’s savings. Mr. Tufenkian’s requests for a refund have been rejected.
“You can understand how a business makes mistakes,” he said, “but a proper business will do what it takes to make it right. Trump University has no interest in taking care of its customers.” 
George Sorial, a managing director and lawyer at the Trump Organization, the company that oversees Mr. Trump’s various businesses, said that the school had a “very generous” refund policy — and that less than two percent of students ask for their money back.
Mr. Sorial called claims that instructors took students on tours of Home Depot and asked students to raise their credit limits “ridiculous” and “unsubstantiated.” He said mentors were prohibited from profiting from their advice. According to student evaluations, he said, Trump University has a 97 percent customer satisfaction rate with its 11,000 paying students around the country.
“I guarantee that if you went out and surveyed Harvard grads, you would find some who are not happy. It’s inevitable,” he said. “You cannot look at the exception to the rule.” 
Students said the evaluations must be put into context: they were told to fill them out using their names, often in the presence of the instructors they were assessing. Mr. Tufenkian, for example, said he gave high marks to the program after his mentor told him he would not leave until Mr. Tufenkian did so. “I had to fill it out right in front of him,” Mr. Tufenkian said. 
The school has repeatedly sought to use such evaluations to raise questions about the credibility of unhappy former students. After Tarla Makaeff, who spent about $37,000 on Trump classes, joined the lawsuit against the school, the company released raw footage of a Trump University videographer approaching her in a hotel conference room, asking her to assess the program and her mentors. On the video, her mentors can be seen standing beside her, clearly within earshot. While warning that “we just got started,” Ms. Makaeff, 37, calls the mentors “great” and “awesome.” 
In retrospect, Ms. Makaeff said, university employees “were trying to cover themselves,” by putting her on tape. Trump University is now suing her for defamation, seeking at least $1 million in damages for her public criticism of the school in letters, e-mail and online. “That just shows you how low they will go to silence people,” Ms. Makaeff said. 
The school’s troubles are intensifying. Last year, the Texas attorney general, Greg Abbott, opened a civil investigation into Trump University’s practices. Since then, the company has agreed not to operate in Texas indefinitely, said Thomas Kelley, a spokesman for the attorney general. (Mr. Sorial said there was no formal agreement.)
And last March, New York state officials demanded that Trump University change its name, saying its use of the word university “is misleading and violates New York education law,” joining Maryland, which issued a similar warning in 2008. 
The school has since changed its name to the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative, but has not held a new class in seven months as it reworks its curriculum. “It’s on hiatus,” Mr. Trump said in an interview.
The Trump Institute, meanwhile, shut down in 2009. “It doesn’t meet our standards,” Mr. Sorial said. “Our standards are very high.”
Selling the Name
Even as his empire has expanded into reality television and the clothing aisle, Mr. Trump remains, at least in the public imagination, primarily a real estate developer. 
But to a remarkable degree over the last five years, Mr. Trump has retreated from that role, becoming, instead, a highly-paid licensor, who leases his five-letter brand name to other developers in Toronto, Honolulu, Dubai and even his own backyard, New York City. 
The arrangements allowed Mr. Trump, who is notoriously competitive, to remain a player in the world of big-city builders without risking his own money — a prospect that seemed especially appealing as the economy began to crater. 
“When things got over-inflated in the world,” Mr. Trump’s son Donald Jr., said in an interview, “we removed ourselves from the ground-up development world, where we are risking a lot more.” 
“We switched more to a license model,” he said, describing several of the projects, including the Honolulu building, as “big successes.”
However it was that kind of license deal — in places like Baja California, Mexico, and in Tampa and Fort Lauderdale, Fla. — that led to disappointment and anger among those seeking to buy a home carrying the Trump name, according to the lawsuits.
John Robbins, 62, a retired lieutenant colonel in the United States Army who is among those suing Mr. Trump, recalled being dazzled by the amenities available in the nearly 2,000-square-foot apartment that he and his wife, Rosanna, bought six years ago at the Trump Tower Tampa: granite countertops, sweeping views of the Tampa Bay, and room service from a high-end ground-floor restaurant.
The most important amenity of all, though, was the name on the side of the building. “With the Trump name,” Mr. Robbins said of his $756,000 unit, “we thought it would be a quality building and address.” 
The marketing materials left little doubt that Mr. Trump was a driving force behind the 52-story tower: “We are developing a signature landmark property,” Mr. Trump declared in a news release unveiling it, which described him as a partner. In a marketing video, Mr. Trump called it “my first project on the Gulf of Mexico,” and even showed up to mingle with potential buyers at a lavish, catered event. “I love to build buildings,” Mr. Robbins recalled Mr. Trump telling the audience. 
A confidential agreement, later made public in court filings, told a different story: Mr. Trump was not one of the developers or builders. For $4 million, plus a share of any profits, he had licensed his name. As for the mingling with buyers? He was required to do it, up to two times, in the agreement, which spelled out that the appearances last “for no more than six (6) working hours each.” 
According to the document, the very existence of the license agreement was to be kept confidential. And it remained that way, buyers said, long after they bought their units. “If at any point I had known this, I would have walked away,” said Mr. Robbins, who put down a deposit of about $150,000 — half of which, under Florida law, the developer could use for construction costs. 
A similar situation unfolded in Baja, where Mr. Trump licensed his name to another glamorous-sounding waterfront property: the Trump Ocean Resort Baja. 
As financing for the building froze in 2008 and the developer missed key deadlines, Mr. Trump exercised his right to terminate the license agreement and remove his name. According to a lawsuit, the partners behind the deal burned through $32 million worth of buyer deposits, even though little, if any, construction was done. 
One of the buyers suing Mr. Trump, Donald Isbell, said he has lain awake countless nights trying to figure out how he erred. He has lost his entire deposit of $147,000. “I have come to the conclusion,” he said, “that what I did wrong was to trust Donald Trump.” 
Mr. Trump and his advisers seem unapologetic about how they handled the three deals. Asked, in a deposition with lawyers for the Tampa buyers, if he would be responsible for any shoddy construction, Mr. Trump replied that he had “no liability,” and said that he was unsure whether his licensing arrangements were disclosed to buyers. Pressed during the deposition as to why he did not return his license fee after the development fell apart, Mr. Trump replied: “Well, because I had no obligation to the people that signed me to give it back.”
But what has most galled people like Mr. Robbins, who sank much of their life savings into their dream homes, was Mr. Trump’s suggestion that the collapse of the project was a blessing — because it had allowed buyers to avoid the housing crash and the resulting plunge in home values.
“They were better off losing their deposit,” Mr. Trump said. 
“Better off?” asked Mr. Robbins, who lost $75,600, the half of his deposit spent on construction. “No. I would be better off if he had been truthful and honest with us from the beginning. I would be better off if he returned my deposit. 
“But he will never do that. He is looking out for Donald Trump and the dollar.”
Columbus, Ohio
THE legal scholar Derrick A. Bell foresaw that mass incarceration, like earlier systems of racial control, would continue to exist as long as it served the perceived interests of white elites.
Thirty years of civil rights litigation and advocacy have failed to slow the pace of a racially biased drug war or to prevent the emergence of a penal system of astonishing size. Yet a few short years of tight state budgets have inspired former “get tough” true believers to suddenly denounce the costs of imprisonment. “We’re wasting tax dollars on prisons,” they say. “It’s time to shift course.” 
Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, shocked many earlier this year when he  co-wrote an essay for The Washington Post calling on “conservative legislators to lead the way in addressing an issue often considered off-limits to reform: prisons.” 
Republican governors had already been sounding the same note. As California was careering toward bankruptcy last year, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger lamented that more money was being spent on prisons than on education. Priorities “have become out of whack over the years,” he said. “What does it say about any state that focuses more on prison uniforms than on caps and gowns?” Another Republican governor, John R. Kasich of Ohio, recently announced support for reducing penalties for nonviolent drug offenders as part of an effort to slash the size of the state’s prison population. 
A majority of those swept into our nation’s prison system are poor people of color, but the sudden shift away from the “get tough” rhetoric that has dominated the national discourse on crime has not been inspired by a surge in concern about the devastating human toll of mass incarceration. Instead, as Professor Bell predicted, the changing tide is best explained by perceived white interests. In this economic climate, it is impossible to maintain the vast prison state without raising taxes on the (white) middle class. 
Given this political reality, it is hardly a surprise to read a headline that says, “N.A.A.C.P. Joins With Gingrich in Urging Prison Reform,” rather than the other way around. If there were ever an illustration of Professor Bell’s theory that whites will support racial justice only to the extent that it is in their interests, this would seem to be it. 
Of course, in the late 1970s, when Professor Bell, who now teaches at New York University School of Law, first advanced his theories, our prison population was much smaller. The Reagan revolution had not yet taken hold. No one knew that the war on drugs and the “get tough” movement would unleash a wave of punitiveness that would trap generations in ghettoes, and brand them criminals and felons. No one foresaw the caste-like system that would emerge, the millions who would be stripped of basic civil and human rights supposedly won in the civil rights movement — the right to vote, to serve on juries, and to be free of discrimination in employment, housing, education and public benefits. 
Today, 2.3 million Americans are behind bars; the United States has the world’s highest rate of incarceration. Convictions for non-violent crimes and relatively minor drug offenses — mostly possession, not sale — have accounted for the bulk of the increase in the prison population since the mid-1980s. 
African-Americans are far more likely to get prison sentences for drug offenses than white offenders, even though studies have consistently shown that they are no more likely to use or sell illegal drugs than whites. 
What to do now? Understandably, civil rights advocates and criminal justice reformers are celebrating this moment of what Professor Bell calls “interest convergence.” They say we must catch the wave and ride it. Many have given up all hope of persuading the white electorate that they should care about the severe racial disparities in the criminal justice system or the racial politics that birthed the drug war. It’s possible now, they say, to win big without talking about race or “making it an issue.” Public relations consultants like the FrameWorks Institute — which dedicates itself to “changing the public conversation about social problems” — advise advocates to speak in a “practical tone” and avoid discussions of “fairness between groups and the historical legacy of racism.” 
Surely the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. would have rejected that advice.
In 1963, in his “Letter From a Birmingham Jail,” he chastised white ministers for their indifference to black suffering: “I have almost reached the regrettable conclusion that the Negro’s great stumbling block in his stride toward freedom is not the White Citizens Counciler or the Ku Klux Klanner, but the white moderate who is more devoted to ‘order’ than to justice; who prefers a negative peace which is the absence of tension to a positive peace which is the presence of justice; who constantly says, ‘I agree with you in the goal you seek, but I can’t agree with your methods of direct action’; who paternalistically believes he can set the timetable for another man’s freedom; who lives by a mythical concept of time and who constantly advises the Negro to wait for a ‘more convenient season.’ ”
He continued: “We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the hateful words and actions of the bad people but for the appalling silence of the good people.” Such language would not have tested well in a focus group. Yet it helped to change the course of history.
Those who believe that righteous indignation and protest politics were appropriate in the struggle to end Jim Crow, but that something less will do as we seek to dismantle mass incarceration, fail to appreciate the magnitude of the challenge. If our nation were to return to the rates of incarceration we had in the 1970s, we would have to release 4 out of 5 people behind bars. A million people employed by the criminal justice system could lose their jobs. Private prison companies would see their profits vanish. This system is now so deeply rooted in our social, political and economic structures that it is not going to fade away without a major shift in public consciousness. 
Yes, some prison downsizing is likely to occur in the months and years to come. But we ought not fool ourselves: we will not end mass incarceration without a recommitment to the movement-building work that was begun in the 1950s and 1960s and left unfinished. A human rights nightmare is occurring on our watch. If we fail to rise to the challenge, and push past the politics of momentary interest convergence, future generations will judge us harshly. 
Donald J. Trump announced on Monday that he would not seek the presidency, a development less important for the Republican field or his national political future — if he ever had one — than for what it said about a media culture that increasingly seems to give the spotlight to the loudest, most outrageous voices.
Mr. Trump spent months earnestly portraying himself as a potential nominee for a party whose coalition includes family values activists, antigambling religious leaders and deficit hawks, some of whom might just have blanched at his two divorces, casino holdings, penchant for debt financing and formerly liberal positions on some issues.
To some degree he succeeded, using a combination of attributes that made him uniquely qualified to capitalize on the times: Near-universal name recognition (enhanced by his prime-time berth on NBC as the host of “Celebrity Apprentice”), gobs of cash and two decades of experience putting his outsize personality to use in the service of headline creation, starting in the pre-Internet era with the New York City tabloids.
“The media made him, the media kept him, the media kept promoting him,” said Stuart Spencer, a former political strategist for Ronald Reagan. Speaking of the proliferation of news outlets interested in politics, Mr. Spencer, 84 and admittedly fascinated by the new landscape, lamented, “There’s no referee anymore to evaluate what are serious issues and what are serious candidates.”
Mr. Trump and his aides said he was dead serious about making a run. But, they said, before Mr. Trump could figure out whether the White House was his golden ring, he was confronted with the pile of gold NBC was offering for a continued role in “Celebrity Apprentice.”
As much as associates said Mr. Trump wanted to keep his political options open longer, the network needed him to make a decision by Monday, when it was announcing its fall television schedule to major advertisers in its annual presentation in New York. “Celebrity Apprentice” is one of its most important programs, and the network would not be able to line up sponsorship commitments as easily with Mr. Trump as a “maybe.” 
A senior NBC executive said the network believed it had convinced Mr. Trump to stay on as of last week, though there was a brief period of doubt over the weekend after former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas said he would not run. “Donald started saying: ‘Huckabee’s out. Maybe I should stay in this thing,’ ” said the executive, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Television industry executives with knowledge of his negotiation said Mr. Trump’s new contract could bring him as much as $30 million over all, and other estimates published Monday put that figure at upward of $50 million.
“I maintain the strong conviction that if I were to run, I would be able to win the primary and ultimately the general election,” Mr. Trump said Monday in a statement. “Ultimately, however, business is my greatest passion, and I am not ready to leave the private sector.”
From the time Mr. Trump first made rumblings about running in February, questions abounded as to whether he was merely trying to pump up ratings for his program.
Yet his public doubts about President Obama’s citizenship, and his unrelenting calls for the president to release an original copy of his birth certificate, earned him scores of headlines and choice network and cable interview bookings that became the envy of other potential candidates. The attention fed on itself.
“There comes a point where you can’t ignore something, not because it’s entertaining — which he was on a lot of levels,” said Candy Crowley, the anchor of “State of the Union” on CNN who did an early interview with Mr. Trump. “The question was, ‘Is he driving the conversation?’ And he was.”
After Mr. Obama produced an original copy of his long-form birth certificate proving he was born in Hawaii — and effectively ending that portion of Mr. Trump’s media tour — Mr. Trump drew renewed attention for policy positions that included threatening China with a 25 percent trade tariff and seizing the oil fields of Iraq and Libya for American consumption. 
Republican strategists like Karl Rove called Mr. Trump “a joke candidate.” A speech last month before women’s groups in Nevada at which he repeatedly cursed cast new doubts. But he continued to win attention nonetheless, helped along by early polls that showed him toward — or at — the head of the field of possible Republican candidates.
Polling at this stage of a campaign has proven to be an unreliable barometer of actual primary and caucus results months later. But a slew of politics-focused Web sites and increased interest in politics on cable news have tended to give such early polling greater exposure and weight, especially this year, when the Republican contest has otherwise been slow to engage.
“There are outlets aplenty, and these things sort of play their way through that,” said Lee M. Miringoff, director of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion. “And in this case it was all Trumpamania.”
None of this is to say that there was not some segment of the Republican Party that was receptive to his message. Some conservatives said they were willing to forgive his past abortion rights position after he declared he was now antiabortion. “Where you were in the past no longer matters, it only matters where you are today,” said Mr. Trump’s informal political adviser, Roger Stone. 
And some activists said they welcomed the anger he was channeling and the excitement he was bringing to a slow-to-form Republican field. 
“Not that I saw myself voting for him, but I did feel he’d breathe some life into what seems like a pretty dull crowd of Republicans,” said Mike Rowe, who met Mr. Trump last month in Portsmouth, N.H. “I guess he was baiting us for ratings all along, but I also suspect that the great deal maker saw an opportunity to sell high and grabbed it."
Snooky Young, who led the trumpet sections of some of the world’s most famous big bands — including, for some 30 years, Doc Severinsen’s “Tonight Show” orchestra — died on May 11 in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 92.
The cause was complications of a lung disorder, said William Selditz, a family friend. 
As lead trumpeter in the ensembles of Count Basie, Lionel Hampton, Benny Goodman and many others, Mr. Young had one of the more challenging tasks in jazz. The lead trumpeter is in effect the concertmaster of a big band, establishing the way an arrangement is phrased and interpreted not just by the trumpet section but by the entire ensemble. He must also be comfortable in all registers, especially the highest ones. Mr. Young was widely regarded by his peers as one of the great lead trumpeters.
Eugene Edward Young (he acquired the nickname Snooky in childhood) was born on Feb. 3, 1919, in Dayton, Ohio. He began playing trumpet at the age of 6 and was soon touring the South in a family band with his parents and four siblings. He joined the Jimmie Lunceford band as lead and solo trumpeter in 1939.
He was later part of many other big bands, notably Basie’s, with which he played on and off in the 1940s and from 1957 to 1962. In 1966 he became a charter member of the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Jazz Orchestra, one of the few successful big bands formed after the 1940s, which performed every Monday night at the Village Vanguard in New York and continues to do so as the Vanguard Jazz Orchestra. 
His longest lasting, most high profile and most secure job was with the “Tonight Show” band, a position he held from the early 1960s until Johnny Carson retired as the show’s host in 1992. A skilled soloist as well as a section leader, he was occasionally featured on camera. 
Defying the conventional wisdom that trumpeters lose their lip strength as they age, Mr. Young continued to perform into the 21st century, most recently with the Clayton-Hamilton Jazz Orchestra. The bassist John Clayton, co-leader of that band, called him “the trumpet player’s trumpet player.”
Mr. Young was named a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master in 2009. 
He is survived by his wife of 72 years, Dorothy; two daughters, Judy Andrews and Donna Hoo; a son, Danny; seven grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren. 
The New York State attorney general’s office is investigating whether a for-profit school founded by Donald J. Trump, which charges students up to $35,000 a course, has engaged in illegal business practices, according to people briefed on the inquiry.
The investigation was prompted by about a dozen complaints concerning the Trump school that the attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, has found to be “credible” and “serious,” these people said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the investigation was not yet public. 
The inquiry is part of a broader examination of the for-profit education industry by Mr. Schneiderman’s office, which is opening investigations into at least five education companies that operate or have students in the state, according to the people speaking on the condition of anonymity. 
The investigation is the latest problem for a six-year-old company, known until last year as Trump University, that already faces a string of consumer complaints, reprimands from state regulators and a lawsuit from dissatisfied former students. 
George Sorial, a managing director of the Trump Organization, confirmed that the company had received a subpoena from the attorney general’s office, and said, “We look forward to resolving this matter and intend to fully cooperate with their inquiry.” 
Mr. Schneiderman is looking into whether the schools and their recruiters misrepresent their ability to find students jobs, the quality of instruction, the cost of attending, and their programs accreditation, among other things. Such activities could constitute deceptive trade practices or fraud.  
The four other companies are the Career Education Corporation, which runs the Sanford-Brown Institute, Briarcliffe College and American InterContintental University; Corinthian Colleges, the parent company of Everest Institute, WyoTech and Heald Colleges; Lincoln Educational Services, the owner of Lincoln Technical and Lincoln Colleges Online; and Bridgepoint Education, the operator of Ashford University. 
Spokesmen for Lincoln Educational Services, Bridgeport Education and Corinthian Colleges each said the companies had been sent requests for information by the attorney general’s office and would comply with them.
A representative of Career Education Corporation declined to comment.
For-profit schools have become big business in the United States, especially as the unemployed seek a way back into the work force. Some of those schools, however, have been accused of creating as much economic harm as help: students have reported falling deep into debt to pay for classes that they said had failed to deliver what they had promised. 
Mr. Trump’s institution is unique among for-profit schools: it is built almost entirely around the prestige and prominence of a single individual. Mr. Trump said he created the university in 2005 to impart decades’ worth of his business acumen to the general public. He aggressively marketed the school, telling students that his handpicked instructors would “teach you better than the best business school,” according to a transcript of a Web video.
The school has charged premium prices because of the Trump name, with the cost of the courses ranging from $1,500 to $35,000 each. 
But, as The New York Times reported last week, dozens of students have complained about the quality of the program to the attorneys general of New York, Texas, Florida and Illinois. The Better Business Bureau gave the school a D-minus for 2010, its second-lowest grade, after receiving 23 complaints. Over the last three years, New York and Maryland have told the company to drop the word “university” from its title, saying that using it violated state education laws. (The school was renamed the Trump Entrepreneur Initiative in 2010.) 
Four former students filed a suit against Trump University last year in a federal court in California, seeking class-action status. They contended that the school used high-pressure sales tactics to enroll students in the costly classes, promised extensive one-on-one instruction that did not materialize and employed “mentors” who at times recommended investments from which they stood to profit. 
Mr. Sorial of the Trump Organization, which oversees Mr. Trump’s businesses, forcefully disputed those claims. He said on Thursday that 95 percent of the school’s students in New York had rated their courses as “excellent” on evaluation forms. The school’s national average is even higher, he said.
“Our customer satisfaction surveys speak for themselves,” he said.
As its troubles have mounted, the school has suspended new classes and begun overhauling its curriculum, executives said. One priority is finding a way to inject more of Mr. Trump into the program.
“The one thing is that they really wanted me involved, instead of the teachers,” Mr. Trump said in an interview last week. 
In interviews, several former students said they felt betrayed by the real estate mogul and his school, especially after investing tens of thousands of dollars in what they thought was to be a comprehensive education. 
“They lure you in with false promises,” said Patricia Murphy, 57, of the Bronx, who is among the former students suing Mr. Trump, whose suit makes similar claims. She said she had spent about $12,000 on Trump University classes, much of it paid with credit cards, in the hope of escaping her career as a part-time teacher and becoming a real estate investor. 
Her instructors said they would introduce her to banks, help her secure loans and walk her, step by step, through deals, she recalled. “They did none of that,” she said. “I was scammed.” 
Mr. Sorial said the school was looking into Ms. Murphy’s claims. 
Carmen Mendez, 59, a public school teacher in Brooklyn, wrote to the Better Business Bureau in 2009 about her disappointment with the school — and with Mr. Trump. She said she had dipped into her retirement savings to pay nearly $35,000 for the classes, because “Mr. Trump is a very respectable person, and I thought that Trump University was a real institution,” she said in the letter to the Better Business Bureau. 
An instructor promised her, she wrote, that the school guaranteed financial assistance to buy e real estate. But once she had enrolled, Ms. Mendez wrote, she was refused such assistance. Because her credit cards were loaded with debt to pay for the classes, mortgage brokers told her she was ineligible for a loan, she said.
“I am writing because I want people to be aware that Trump University is not a real educational institution,” she told the Better Business Bureau. “Please advise other people so they do not lose their savings in these difficult days.”
Mr. Sorial said that the school tried to offer Ms. Mendez a full refund more than six months ago. “She failed to return our numerous calls and e-mails,” he said. 
NEW YORK — The market for Chinese art is heading in an entirely new direction. Aesthetic merit and even authenticity no longer seem to weigh much in determining prices. 
Striking evidence of the scant attention paid to intrinsic quality came on March 22 in a Sotheby’s auction for the Chinese works of art amassed over a lifetime by the Chinese-American dealer J.T. Tai, as Tai Jun-tsei called himself in the United States. 
J.T. Tai & Co., the gallery that opened at 810 Madison Avenue in 1950, was a household name among Chinese art collectors. In the auction catalog, Marcus Linell of Sotheby’s sang the praises of Mr. Tai, a Chinese refugee who made good. Mr. Linell pointed out that Mr. Tai had helped two of America’s leading collectors build up the core of the Chinese art hoards now housed in the San Francisco Asian Art Museum and the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery in Washington.
Shunting off masterpieces into foreign hands is not the kind of feat likely to have endeared Mr. Tai’s memory to the minds of the Chinese. Their will to recover pieces of a lost heritage played its part in the extraordinary outcome of the March 22 sale, in which 313 lots added up to $36.27 million, leaving 15 lots unsold.
Even so, two particularly extravagant prices deserved special attention. Both were paid for objects effectively cataloged as pastiches by Sotheby’s expert Caroline Schulten. A famille-rose vase decorated with blossoming trees and rocks in a style trying to recapture the painterly skills of the 18th century was entered as a “Republican period” porcelain, i.e., of the 20th century. The estimate was accordingly set at $6,000 to $8,000. Chinese bidders sent it climbing to $1.31 million. 
If that amount of money seemed crazy for a pale imitation of an 18th-century vessel, it was dwarfed by the price commanded immediately after by a famille-rose vase described as “probably Republican period.” The cautious wording was unnecessary. Deviations from the 18th-century style that inspires its decoration leave no room for doubt. The piece is of recent make, a suspicion clearly shared by Sotheby’s, as suggested by the $800 to $1,200 estimate. Chinese bidders ran it up to just over $18 million, a world record for Chinese hotel lobby art.
Other huge prices were unrelated to art. A phenomenal premium was put on objects that had belonged to early Western collectors. A costume ornament with twin jade discs linked by their dragon-shaped handles loosely held in a clasp was broadly dated to the “Qing period” (1644-1912). This discreetly suggested that it might be as late as the 19th century, hence a $10,000 to $15,000 estimate. The ornament, acquired by its consignor in 1969, climbed to $434,500.
Even more remarkable was the willingness of Chinese bidders to compete over the bronzes of ancient China, recovered from funerary chambers. These used to be shunned because breaking open ancestral tombs was held to be sacrilegious. No such concerns inhibited the bidders as they ignored the $6,000 to $8,000 estimate by Sotheby’s for an 11th-century B.C. ritual bronze acquired by Mr. Tai in 1955. The unremarkable vessel realized a miraculous $104,500. Another so-called “archaic” bronze vessel of the same period, which had been exhibited in 1972 at the University of Maryland Art Gallery in “Chinese Art from the Ferris Luboshez Collection,” followed. The estimate here was $8,000 to 12,000. Instead, the bronze rose to $80,500.
Mr. Tai’s porcelains that could be shown to have belonged to early Western collections likewise hit the roof. A famille-verte vase of square section with scenes molded in light relief dating from the Kangxi period (1662-1722) had appeared at the Parke-Bernet sale of the Allen J. Mercher collection on Nov. 2, 1956. Sotheby’s thought the vase might go as high as $35,000, plus a 25 percent charge. It realized $182,500. 
A second sale held at Sotheby’s on March 23 was by no means sure to elicit this level of enthusiastic bidding. Called “Harmony of Form, Serenity of Color,” the “Private Collection of ‘Song’ Ceramics” had evidently been assembled as a commercial venture. The objects were bought in batches by an American collector within the year following the autumn 1990 market crash and at a fast rate from 2005 to 2010 when the Chinese market kept rising. 
Yet, the Chinese bidders’ rage to buy did not diminish. Here again, the quality of the objects, or the lack of it, was utterly ignored. Works of art made for the emperor were furiously disputed. The Chinese, who have always loved palace wares, now see them as supreme emblems of national identity. 
A large tripod bowl with the mottled turquoise glaze of Jun porcelain largely lacked the purplish splashes that make this class of porcelain attractive but was inscribed on the underside with the character for the digit three. The numbered Jun porcelain vessels on record are respectively preserved in the National Palace Museum in Taipei and the Palace Museum in Beijing. Chinese passions were inflamed.
The Jun vessel — which on Nov. 12, 2003, cost the investor at Sotheby’s London £78,000, or about $130,350 at the time — was now estimated to be worth $200,000 to $300,000. The vessel, of no great distinction other than the imperial number, soared to $2.2 million, paid by the Shanghai Tianwuguan Art Fund. 
Later, an early 13th-century vase with the bluish-green glaze of the Longquan kilns under the Southern Song dynasty also provoked furious competition. Sotheby’s noted the presence of “a related larger vase in the Palace Museum, Beijing.” The vessel in the Sotheby’s sale was bought by the collector on March 30, 2006, for $84,000. The estimate of $90,000 to $120,000 was ignored, as the Shanghai Tianwuguan Art Fund paid $442,500 for the trophy. 
Not all of the American collector’s acquisitions proved as profitable. Of 83 lots, 20 fell unwanted. But the 63 lots that did sell added up to $9.03 million. Curiously, the Chinese gave up on the greatest porcelain in the sale session, a celadon bowl from the Longquan kilns exhibited as early as 1953 at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The vessel, acquired at Christie’s New York on Sept. 20, 2005, for $36,000, carried an estimate of $30,000 to $50,000. It was bagged by a Western collector for $122,500.
Conclusive proof that art was not the main concern of Chinese bidders came on March 23 in a third session dealing with works of art from various owners.
In earlier days, a pair of huanghuali wooden yoke armchairs would not have aroused particular interest. The model is associated with the emperor in Chinese painting, but it is not that rare. The estimate was $200,000 to $300,000. Chinese bidders sent the pair climbing to an incomprehensible $2.77 million.
An equally surprising price was paid for a late 19th-century painting illustrating the defeat of the Nian uprising at the siege of Pingyu in 1862. At $1.98 million, it doubled the highest expectations despite its stilted style. The tribute paid to the Qing emperor’s victory made it desirable to the new bidders. 
A jade vessel in an archaistic style inspired by 12th century B.C. bronze ritual vessels prompted an even more astonishing display of Chinese enthusiasm. A poem by the emperor Qianlong and a date corresponding to 1776 were inscribed on the jade. However, the Sotheby’s estimate of $70,000 to $90,000 estimate, too timid for a historic imperial heirloom, suggested that the experts had their doubts about the period of the piece. Ignoring the spoofy appearance of the object, which was probably not earlier than the 20th century, Chinese bidders sent it climbing to $1.65 million.
For two long days, Chinese players gave the impression that they were picking up badges of national fervor, as they recovered pieces long ensconced in Western collections and amassed imperial tokens, real or imaginary. Works perceived as symbols of traditional China, like the porcelain seated Guanyin perhaps made in the late 14th century, were competed over with a passion. The Buddhist deity made $218,500, six times the high estimate.
This month in London, indifference to the art persisted at a May 11 sale at Sotheby’s. A white porcelain vase interpreting fifth-century B.C. bronze models left some Western dealers skeptical about its supposed 18th-century period despite the Qianlong emperor’s seal mark. But it had adorned pre-World War II Japanese collections, and the Chinese paid £825,250, double its high estimate. It was part of the 10 most expensive lots now all on their way to the Far East.
In London as in New York, art was the excuse. Nationalist passion and personal hubris were the dominant factors. And when these rule the game, prices defy prediction. 
The Memorial Weekend Sectional was played at the Cavendish, Honors and Manhattan bridge clubs in New York last weekend. The diagramed deal from Saturday was unusual.
East opened two spades, by partnership agreement typically with only a five-card suit. So when Barry Rigal of New York (South) overcalled three hearts, West did not compete with three spades.
Against three hearts, West led the spade king and continued with the spade queen. South ruffed, played a club to dummy’s king, led a diamond to his ace, returned a diamond to dummy’s king and called for a low club.
We are taught that second-hand low is right much more often than not — but sometimes it is wrong. This time it was. East should have won the trick with his queen and shifted to his trump (or led the diamond queen). However, East played his ten.
West took declarer’s jack with his ace and led another spade. South ruffed and trumped a club in the dummy to reach this end position:
 NORTH
{sspade} —
{oheart} 10
{odiamond} 7 6 4 3
{sclub} —
 WEST
{sspade} —
{oheart} K J 6 3 2
{odiamond} —
{sclub} —
 EAST
{sspade} 10 7 5
{oheart} 7
{odiamond} Q
{sclub} —
 SOUTH
{sspade} —
{oheart} A Q 8
{odiamond} —
{sclub} 9 4
When declarer called for a diamond, East, as expected, produced the queen. (West with Q-10-9 of diamonds surely would have covered South’s jack at Trick 5.)
Now South knew that East had begun with six spades (West would have bid three spades with four-card support), three diamonds, three clubs and, therefore, one heart. This meant West had only trumps left in his hand.
Declarer discarded a club. West had to ruff, and then he led a low trump. After winning with dummy’s ten, South repeated the process, playing another diamond and pitching his remaining club. West had to trump and lead from the king-jack of hearts into South’s ace-queen.
Three hearts bid and made was a tied top on the board.
Aggressive pre-empts are popular in the tournament world. But you should have the hand partner will expect. Here, since West would assume that East had only five spades, especially when nonvulnerable, East should have opened three spades. Or when three hearts was passed around, he could have made a takeout double. Note that East could have made three spades, losing only one heart, two diamonds and one club.
Of course, if East had doubled, West might have passed, enjoying his five trumps and vulnerable opponents, trying for plus 200 to outscore plus 140.
There is a huge gap in logic at the heart of the Republican intransigence on a debt-ceiling deal, and President Obama helped to illuminate it on Monday. 
The party claims, as an article of faith, if not evidence, that the government’s growing debt is the reason for persistent unemployment and economic stagnation. And yet Republicans are spurning the president’s compromise offers to reduce that debt by trillions over the next decade because he is sensibly insisting that any deal include some increase in tax revenue.
“Where are they?” Mr. Obama asked at his news conference. “I mean, this is what they claim would be the single biggest boost to business certainty and confidence. So what’s the holdup?”
The holdup, of course, is that Republicans are far more committed to the ideological goals of cutting government and taxes than they are committed to cutting the deficit. They rejected several compromise offers by the White House, even though any revenue increases would be far outweighed by spending cuts.
Republican rejectionism was on clear display Saturday night when John Boehner, the House speaker, was forced to abandon a plan he and the president had discussed to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over 10 years. 
The plan would have gone much too far in cutting discretionary spending and entitlements, taking too much money from the economy at a time when it desperately needs government investment. But it would have been better than the slashing and burning the Republicans have been demanding because it would have raised from $700 billion to $1 trillion in additional revenue beginning in 2013 by ending tax breaks and deductions for corporations and the rich, or by ending the Bush tax cuts for families making $250,000 or more. 
The House Republican leader, Eric Cantor, insisted to Mr. Boehner that his members, shackled to antitax pledges, could not accept it, or anything similar. Now negotiators are trying to reach agreement on a deal to lower the deficit by $2 trillion or so over a decade. But the consequences for the economy and Americans’ lives would be just as disastrous if all of those “savings” come out of essential government programs, with no additional revenue. 
Mr. Boehner’s refusal to push back against his party’s ideologues is only feeding their worst impulses. Many House Republicans have gone even further than Mr. Cantor and have rejected any deal that raises the debt ceiling, whether it contains revenue increases or not. 
Representative Michele Bachmann and Reince Priebus, the Republican national chairman, airily and irresponsibly insist that the government will find some other way to pay its bills. That’s dangerous nonsense. And as the president forcefully noted, a default could propel interest rates skyward, throw millions more Americans out of work, and create another recession.
It was good to see Mr. Obama challenging the Republicans’ illogic and pushing them to make a deal before it’s too late. But we fear the sort of deal he is willing to consider, based overwhelmingly on spending cuts, could still consign the country to more years of economic stagnation. 
The president spoke about the need to create an infrastructure bank, to maintain unemployment benefits, and to protect the elderly and the poor. But keeping those goals will be nearly impossible with a debt deal that cuts three times as much spending as it raises revenue. A balanced plan, like the one Senator Kent Conrad is circulating among Senate Democrats, would cut spending and raise revenue equally, and would make it possible to pay for programs that kick-start the economy.
Americans need to hear the hard economic truth that there is no way to both cut the deficit and revive the economy without finding additional sources of revenue. As the president himself said on Monday, “If not now, when?”
If you asked bridge aficionados to name the three greatest players of all time, Benito Garozzo would be on almost everyone’s list. Born in Italy but a United States resident for many years, Garozzo had his 84th birthday on Monday.
He has won 13 world titles, five European championships, numerous Italian titles and four North American national championships.
He plays almost daily on Bridge Base Online under the screen name of sillafu. He was the declarer in the diagramed deal on that Web site two months ago.
North liked his hand enough to open one diamond, despite only nine high-card points.
After the opponents have bid a minor and a major, a takeout double usually indicates exactly four cards in the unbid major and four plus in the other minor. With at least 5-5 in the unbid suits, you make a conventional no-trump overcall. Here, though, perhaps West was not sure if a one-no-trump overcall would have been taken as natural or as at least 5-5 in the unbid suits. And being vulnerable, he did not want to jump to two no-trump.
East’s double of four spades is not recommended. Even when the contract is going down, a good declarer — and Garozzo is one of the best ever — will often play one trick better than when he has not been forewarned about a bad trump break.
West led the club king and shifted to the heart jack. Garozzo (South) won with his ace and played a low spade to dummy’s king, getting the expected news.
Now South cashed dummy’s diamond king, dropping East’s queen, and led a diamond toward his hand. When East ruffed, declarer unblocked his ace.
After East returned a club, South trumped in the dummy and led another diamond, ruffed by East.
If East had played a club, declarer would have ruffed in the dummy and led diamonds. Whenever East ruffed, South would have overruffed; played a trump to dummy’s queen, removing East’s last spade; and finished the diamonds.
When East actually led a heart, declarer won with his king, drew two rounds of trumps ending in the dummy and ran the diamonds for plus 790.
That was a textbook example of using a side suit to maintain trump control by making an opponent ruff and reduce his trump length to the same as declarer’s. Also note that if South had cashed his spade ace at Trick 2, he would have gone down, dummy being forced to ruff the third round of clubs with a spade honor, and giving East a third trump trick.

The Long Island Fall Regional will take place Sept. 20 to 25 at the Sheraton Long Island Hotel in Smithtown, N.Y. Details are at web2.acbl.org/tournaments/Ads/2011/09/1109004.pdf.
Several thousand people ringed Central Park in the rain on Thursday night, lining up for hours for a free concert by Andrea Bocelli. We pitied them as we flounced past the snaking line into the V.I.P. area, we swear. But our smugness was short lived: we were no better off. 
Chicly dressed guests wore garbage bags as stoles, huddling against the cold on lounge chairs in the rain. Under a tent with blue curtains and blue carpet — to invoke the blue of the Barilla pasta box; the company was a sponsor — lips and fingers were blue, too. (Only Hilaria Thomas, the girlfriend of Alec Baldwin, seemed warm. She swam in his jacket while he stood in shirt sleeves.)
The Trump family braved more than the rain: Donald and Melania Trump stood chatting in the cold with Mr. Trump’s ex-wife Ivana Trump, Mr. Trump’s daughter with Ivana, Ivanka Trump, and Ivanka’s husband, Jared Kushner. The reunion looked friendly, but as imminent hypothermia had us fantasizing about becoming a Nocturnalist version of the Little Match Girl, soon to be found frozen solid with our notebook still clutched in our frigid fingers, we might not have been the best judge. 
We wandered under the tent, where varieties of pasta were being served, looking for interesting conversation to warm us up, but were stymied by Kim Kardashian’s snarling bodyguard, who twice refused to let us talk to her or her husband, Kris Humphries. 
“Not right now!” the guard barked, while at the same time Ms. Kardashian — shrinking media-shy violet that she is — stepped around him to talk to us. She shivered in a gauzy animal print dress. To watch Celine Dion’s duet with Mr. Bocelli, she said, “it’s worth it; it’s totally worth freezing in the rain.”
Not everyone seemed to think so. Sting arrived 10 minutes into the show, but still caught Mr. Bocelli singing “New York, New York” with Tony Bennett, which sent the crowd into paroxysms of cellphone videoing ecstasy. Mr. Baldwin left after just a few songs, but not before we asked his advice, given that he is Nocturnalist’s self-appointed seafood adviser, about the pasta being served all around.
“Actually, I don’t eat carbs anymore,” he said. “I’ve lost 30 pounds!”
He did indeed look very trim — lean protein like sea bass will do that to you.
Rock Hard, Party Easy 
We were in our teenage fantasy on Tuesday night, hanging out backstage with musicians who had played in Guns N’ Roses and the Ramones, and a host of other leather-clad classic rockers orbited by stilettoed groupies — only the bizarro version of that fantasy. The coke was cola at this concert, and it was Jack Daniels-free.
The event, held at the Best Buy Theater in Times Square, was a fund-raiser for Road Recovery, an organization that uses celebrities and rockers to help young people battle crises like addiction, and to honor the contributions of the guitarist Slash.
“It’s good to know someone who might have a semblance of coolness, someone outside of Nancy Reagan, telling you not to take drugs,” said Richard Manitoba, formerly a singer for the punk band the Dictators, who said he gave up alcohol and drugs in 1993 (and yet who is an owner of the East Village bar Manitoba’s). 
The rockers looked eerily the same as in their respective heydays; Slash’s cascading black hair, black top hat and face mind-bogglingly unchanged, as if he’d been preserved in brine since 1987. 
But no one had an appetite for destruction at this show. “Crash and burn as quick as you can, so you can recover and find out about the possibilities of life,” said Wayne Kramer, formerly a guitarist with the band MC5.
Nearby, Gilby Clarke, a former G N’ R guitarist, rehearsed Pink Floyd’s “Wish You Were Here” in front of a vanity’s mirror. 
A flat-screen TV showed the concurrent performance on stage: Slash strumming the Beatles’ “Birthday” for a boy turning 10 while someone dressed as a cake danced nearby. “Oh my God, I’m so glad I didn’t do this song,” Mr. Manitoba said.
Though Marky Ramone, formerly a drummer for the Ramones, looked as well preserved as Slash, things had changed for him. For one, he now sells pasta sauce.
“I didn’t like the hangovers anymore, and people telling you what you did the night before,” he said, after plugging Marky Ramone’s Brooklyn’s Own sauce. 
It’s available at Whole Foods, he added.
Political Horseplay
Though his daughter is a professional equestrian, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg declined to mount a horse for the inaugural go-round of the new carousel in Brooklyn Bridge Park in Dumbo on Thursday night. Not so Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, nor the City Council speaker and potential mayoral candidate, Christine C. Quinn, both of whom clambered onto steeds and whirled about. 
Mr. Bloomberg, whose administration has been notably hard on junk food, scarfed popcorn, “a basic food group,” he said in a speech. “Another basic food group is Cheez-Its,” he added. “I don’t think our health commissioner likes either one, but I don’t care.”
Mr. Markowitz, a Democrat, said he was “depressed” by the loss of the House seat previously held by Anthony D. Weiner and miffed at Mr. Weiner’s scandalous online behavior.
“I’m 66 years old,” he said, “and if I wanted to do what he did, I’d have to use a Polaroid camera and put it in an envelope and mail it out. I don’t know who would be more scared: me, or the people who would get it in the mail.”
The music of Kenny Wheeler doesn’t really clamor for attention. Mr. Wheeler, a quietly influential jazz trumpeter originally from Canada but living in Britain for nearly 60 years, favors graceful melody and intuitive harmony, avoiding the trappings of needless flourish and easy friction. His songs — for that’s usually what they are, solid and hummable — tend to be meticulous in their construction but free of visible effort, in the manner of fine haberdashery or good industrial design. 
He played five of them at the Jazz Standard on Sunday, all keepers, in the last of his four nights there.
Mr. Wheeler was concluding a welcome tenure as guest of honor at the Festival of New Trumpet Music, a progressive but stylistically varied enterprise founded in 2003 by the trumpeter Dave Douglas. Earlier in the festival Mr. Wheeler had appeared with a brass ensemble and a big band, both led by accomplished arrangers. Sunday was all about his own ensemble, a quintet made up of adopted New Yorkers: Jon Irabagon on alto saxophone, Craig Taborn on piano, Dave Holland on bass and Rudy Royston on drums.
It wasn’t a working band, which explained why the second set felt so substantially better than the first. The set lists were identical, which made for an easy comparison, but in both iterations the songs fulfilled their function, exuding an elegant clarity. What made the difference in the late set was more cohesion and a greater sense of license. 
The improvement registered across the bandstand, but its chief beneficiary might have been Mr. Wheeler, playing flugelhorn. At 81, he shows some frailty: he sat throughout both sets, entrusting the announcements to Mr. Holland. His tone on the horn has lost some of its old luster, and his articulation has softened. 
But the center of his sound is still clear. And at times in the second set — notably on “Kind Folk,” a rippling waltz — he soloed with striking self-assurance, forming a steady and unlabored flow of ideas. He was even more focused on “Old Ballad,” a vintage reverie that he has recently refurbished. (It appears on his album “One of Many,” released this year on Cam Jazz.) 
His band mates worked effectively behind him, none more grounded than Mr. Holland, a longtime colleague: His syncopated bass line on “Canter N. 1” provided a pivot around which the others could spin their variations. 
There was flowing, shape-shifting pulse from Mr. Royston; there were commanding solos, most often from Mr. Taborn, though some from Mr. Irabagon too, at least in the second set.
At the end of that set — after Mr. Douglas had presented Mr. Wheeler, for the second time, with a trophy made out of an old trumpet — the honoree finally took his microphone. He thanked the festival for having him. 
Then he added, in a dry deadpan: “Thank the members of this band. They’re almost as good as I thought they were.”
Often, information is power. But sometimes it isn’t, a new study on European starlings suggests. 
Esteban Freidin and Alex Kacelnik, behavioral ecologists at the University of Oxford, found that in certain instances the birds make better choices when they have less information. 
The researchers trained starlings to peck at colored keys that yielded food pellets after various time delays. Key A yielded pellets the fastest, followed by keys B, C and D. After training, the birds were able to make optimal choices about which keys to peck in order to get food the fastest.
The researchers also trained the birds to expect keys as combinations. For instance, they were trained to see keys A and B together, and C and D together. They learned that A was always better than B, and C was always better than D. 
The confusion arose when the birds were presented with keys B and C together. Although B offered a food pellet faster than C, the birds were not able to put this information in context for the combination. The findings appear in the journal Science. 
In the wild, the ability to make good decisions in sequence may be more important to a starling, which generally walks through short grass in search of prey, digs into the soil with its bill and then decides whether the site is worth pursuing. 
At times, humans also make what appear to be irrational choices, Dr. Kacelnik said — when picking among various brands at the store, for instance. 
“It has become now very popular now among behavioral economists to highlight irrationalities in human behavior,” he said. “This research is aimed at identifying the decision processes used by animals and humans.”
Republican strategists on Monday bemoaned the prospect of a presidential debate hosted by Donald J. Trump even as Newt Gingrich, surging in recent polls, made a pilgrimage to see Mr. Trump, the billionaire real estate mogul and reality TV star.
Mr. Gingrich arrived Monday at Trump Tower in New York to a crush of news media, the latest Republican presidential candidate to court Mr. Trump. Mitt Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, and other candidates have also made the trip.
“Donald Trump is a great showman,” Mr. Gingrich told reporters after his closed-door meeting. “He’s also a great businessman.”
Veteran Republican operatives are increasingly agonizing over the image of a party whose contenders have been beset by scandals, factual gaffes and a fickle electorate that seems unimpressed by the choices they have been given.
Now, Mr. Trump promises once again to inject his personality in the Republican race as he hosts a debate   days before the Jan. 3 Iowa caucuses. But leading Republican strategists and campaign officials on Monday condemned a Trump-moderated debate as a spectacle that would do more harm to the party than good.
The billionaire grabbed headlines this year by seizing on the “birther issue,” questioning whether President Obama was an American citizen, and Mr. Trump continues to dangle the idea of an independent bid for the White House next year.
Karl Rove, the former political adviser to President George W. Bush, railed against the idea of a debate hosted by Mr. Trump. In an appearance on Fox News on Monday, Mr. Rove called on Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, to put a stop to the debate.
“What the heck are the Republican candidates doing showing up at a debate with a guy who says, ‘I may run for president next year as an independent,’ ” Mr. Rove said. “I think the Republican national chairman ought to step in and say we strongly discourage every candidate from appearing.”
A spokesman for Mr. Priebus did not respond to an e-mail requesting a response to Mr. Rove’s suggestion. In an appearance on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday, Mr. Priebus said that attending a debate hosted by Mr. Trump is “up to the candidates. I mean, I don’t make those decisions.”
But other Republicans were less hesitant to offer their opinions.
In an interview, Ari Fleischer, a former press secretary for Mr. Bush, called Mr. Trump’s debate “an invitation to a circus” and urged the candidates to refuse to attend.
“Donald Trump risks making a carnival out of a serious presidential campaign,” Mr. Fleischer said. “I think this is an opportunity for a candidate to stand up. I don’t understand the fear of Donald Trump, politically. He doesn’t have a constituency or a following.”
Mark McKinnon, a strategist who worked for Mr. Bush, said in an e-mail that the proposed debate is “not good for the candidates. It’s not good for the party. It’s only good for Donald Trump.”
Mr. McKinnon is working with the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard to propose a primary debate commission for 2016 that would be empowered to authorize only certain debates.
He said that news organizations have “wrested complete control over how and when the primary debates are conducted. And this Trump debate is proof the inmates have taken over the asylum.”
Mr. Trump remains a magnetic — but also a divisive — personality for the Republican Party. Mr. Gingrich officially accepted the debate offer over the weekend in a Twitter message, but two other Republican candidates, Representative Ron Paul of Texas and Jon M. Huntsman Jr., immediately rejected the idea.
“Mr. Trump’s selection is also wildly inappropriate because of his record of toying with the serious decision of whether to compete for our nation’s highest office, a decision he appeared to make frivolously,” Jesse Benton, a spokesman for Mr. Paul, said in a statement.
One unanswered question is whether Mr. Romney will attend. Andrea Saul, a spokeswoman for Mr. Romney’s campaign, said, “We’re reviewing the invitation.”
Mr. Gingrich’s rise in the polls, especially in Iowa and South Carolina, could make it tougher for Mr. Romney to ignore the forum just days before voting begins. Though Mr. Romney met with Mr. Trump, he did so quietly, trying not to attract attention at the time.
Mitt Romney said Tuesday that he would not take part in a debate moderated by Donald J. Trump, casting doubt on whether other candidates would take part.
“I spoke with Donald Trump earlier today and indicated that we just can’t make this debate,” Mr. Romney said on “Your World With Neil Cavuto” on Fox News. He cited his commitment to two other debates in December, one on Saturday on ABC and the other next week on Fox News.
Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor, joined Jon M. Huntsman Jr. and Representative Ron Paul of Texas in declining to participate. So far, only Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum have said they will appear at the debate, which is being hosted by Newsmax, the conservative magazine and Web site, and will be broadcast on Ion Television on Dec. 27.
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has not yet said if he will participate. And Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota is also undecided.
The debate, while promising to be one of the more sensational events of this already wild primary season, has drawn withering condemnation from many establishment Republicans who consider Mr. Trump a self-promoter who has no interest in helping their party. Karl Rove and others have urged the candidates to boycott the debate.
In a statement, Mr. Trump said: “It would seem logical to me that if I was substantially behind in the polls, especially in Iowa, South Carolina and Florida, I would want to participate in this debate.” He added, “But I understand why Governor Romney decided not to do it.”
Mr. Romney did agree to sit for a Dec. 18 interview with Chris Wallace on “Fox News Sunday,” in what will be his first Sunday morning interview in nearly two years.
Mr. Wallace, who has earned a reputation for taking a hard line with interview subjects of both parties, has been relentless in calling upon Mr. Romney to appear on his program or, for that matter, on any Sunday program.
 JEREMY W. PETERS and JIM RUTENBERG
CAIRO — Iran’s top nuclear official announced this weekend that the country was on the verge of starting production at its second major uranium enrichment site, in a defiant declaration that its nuclear program would continue despite new international sanctions restricting its oil revenue.
The announcement, made through official news media reports, came after a week of escalating confrontations between Washington and Tehran, including a threat that Iran would respond with military force if the United States tried to send an aircraft carrier strike group back into the Strait of Hormuz. 
The imminent opening of the enrichment site — the Fordo plant, near the city of Qum — confronts the United States and its allies with difficult choices about how far to go to limit Iran’s nuclear abilities. The new facility is buried deep underground on a well-defended military site and is considered far more resistant to airstrikes than the existing enrichment site at Natanz, limiting what Israeli officials, in particular, consider an important deterrent to Iran’s nuclear aims. 
When the existence of the Qum facility was first disclosed by President Obama and his counterparts in France and Britain in the fall of 2009, American officials expressed doubts that Iran would ever go forward with the facility. But once it goes into operation, the chances of disabling it, in the words of one former top Israeli official, “diminish very dramatically.” 
The declaration that the facility was nearly ready came in an interview on Saturday with Fereydoon Abbasi, who was made the head of Iran’s Atomic Energy Organization shortly after surviving an assassination attempt in 2010. The official news agency Mehr quoted him as saying, “The Fordo site near Qum would soon be opened and become operational.” Iranian newspapers reported the development on Sunday. 
While Iran has often exaggerated its abilities, nuclear experts say this claim is plausible. In December, inspectors for the International Atomic Energy Agency reported that during a visit to the plant they saw the finishing touches put on enrichment centrifuges and said they expected the facility to be operating soon.
Iran says its nuclear program is critical to its national security — not because it is seeking weapons, but because it wants an alternative energy source to oil and is seeking to refuel a reactor that makes medical isotopes.
Four years of sanctions have deeply hurt Iran’s economy, but have not changed its nuclear strategy. But the new American sanctions, along with an oil embargo under discussion in Europe, aim to undercut the government by squeezing its most important source of revenue: oil sales. In response, Iran has clearly signaled that the sanctions have only hardened its determination to proceed. On Sunday, for instance, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad began a highly publicized series of visits to South American leaders that have been critical of the United States, starting with President Hugo Chávez of Venezuela. 
More troublingly, Iran threatened early last week to close off shipping in the Strait of Hormuz, an action that analysts say could send global oil prices soaring. Iran conducted military exercises in the waterway, and then said it would use force to bar any re-entry of the United States aircraft carrier John C. Stennis and its escort ships.
While American officials and outside experts have dismissed the threat as hyperbole, and say they have every intention of patrolling the area with a carrier, there is broad concern that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Navy could harass oil tankers passing through the narrow strait or lay mines that could create significant risks to shipping.
The opening of the plant does not significantly affect estimates of how long it could take Iran to produce a nuclear weapon, if that is its true intention. The new facility has been inspected regularly, and unless the Iranians barred inspectors or managed to deceive them, any effort to produce uranium at bomb-grade levels would most likely be detected. American officials have estimated that they would have six months to a year to react, if needed, before the enrichment was completed.
But should it come to that, the Fordo plant site itself would greatly complicate any military action. Satellite photographs show it is surrounded by antiaircraft guns, and the mountainous setting was designed to make a bombing campaign nearly impossible. Mr. Abbasi said Saturday that the plant would house a new generation of centrifuges — the machines that spin at supersonic speeds to enrich the purity of uranium — though inspectors largely saw older, far less efficient models at the plant.
“No one has a full sense of the Iranian production plan there,” said one diplomat who has studied the few details Iran has shared about the plant. “And I think that’s the point.”
Already Iran has produced enough fuel to manufacture about four weapons, but only if the fuel goes through further enrichment, nuclear experts say. Some of the fuel at Fordo, Mr. Abbasi said, would be enriched to 20 percent purity for use in a research reactor in Tehran; because of the oddities about how uranium is enriched, those batches would be the easiest to convert for use in weapons.
It is that ability that has Israel most concerned. So Israeli officials were relieved in December when Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta, speaking at a conference in Washington, strongly suggested that the United States was determined to stop not only a weapon, but the ability to produce one.
But on Sunday, appearing on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” Mr. Panetta was less specific about how close to the line Iran would be allowed to go. Sanctions and separate embargoes against Iran were “working to put pressure on them, to make them understand that they cannot continue to do what they’re doing,” Mr. Panetta said, in comments that were taped before Mr. Abbasi’s announcement. “Are they trying to develop a nuclear weapon? No. But we know that they’re trying to develop a nuclear capability. And that’s what concerns us. And our red line to Iran is: do not develop a nuclear weapon. That’s a red line for us.” 
In saying that the United States did not have any evidence that Iran was seeking to develop a nuclear weapon, Mr. Panetta was hewing closely to the conclusions the often fractious American intelligence agencies agreed upon in 2007 and again in 2010. Two National Intelligence Estimates, designed to reflect the consensus of the intelligence community, concluded that Iranian leaders had made no political decision yet to build an actual weapon. Instead, they described a series of steps that would take Iran right up to that line — and position it to assemble a weapon fairly quickly if a decision to do so were made.
 When asked on “Face the Nation” about the how difficult it would be to take out Iran’s nuclear ability in a military strike, Gen. Martin Dempsey, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said: “Well, I would rather not discuss the degree of difficulty and in any way encourage them to read anything into that. But I will say that my responsibility is to encourage the right degree of planning, to understand the risks associated with any kind of military option, in some cases to position assets, to provide those options in a timely fashion. And all those activities are going on.”
The dream seemed readily attainable: take 222 acres of blighted parkland in the Bronx and convert it into the city’s first championship golf course, one capable of playing host to the United States Open on the banks of the East River. 
But nothing about the planned golf course at Ferry Point Park has been easy. And now, some watchdog groups are questioning a proposed deal that would allow Donald J. Trump to operate the course. Under the terms, Mr. Trump’s company would pay a small fraction of the licensing and development fees a previous vendor agreed to more than a decade ago, even as it charges greens fees about three times as high as those at the city’s other public courses. 
The deal, which needs the approval of the city’s Franchise and Concession Review Committee, comes as the estimated costs to develop the course and related facilities have skyrocketed. In 2000, the city estimated the project would cost $22 million, all of it to be picked up by a developer, who would also operate the course.
That arrangement fell through, and the city now estimates that the development, which includes a driving range and a waterfront esplanade, is to cost more than $180 million to build, making it one of the most expensive municipal golf courses in the country, with all but a fraction to be paid by taxpayers. 
Critics said the deal with Mr. Trump’s company was unlikely to generate enough revenue to pay for the ballooning costs. 
“We’ve seen time and time again this administration giving away our parkland for commercial purposes,” said Geoffrey Croft, president of NYC Parks Advocates, a nonprofit group. “But now, we’re supposed to not make money.” 
Bettina Damiani, director of Good Jobs New York, an advocacy group that tracks government subsidies, called the deal one in a “troubling history” of taxpayer subsidies to sporting venues.
Mr. Trump’s company, Trump National and International Golf Clubs, operates 10 courses in North America and Europe, according to its Web site. 
Under the Ferry Point proposal, the company, known as Trump Golf, would pay $10 million to build a clubhouse and would pay no licensing fees the first four years of the 20-year deal. In Year 5, the company would pay the greater of $300,000 or 7 percent of annual gross revenues. The amount would rise annually, ending in Year 20 at the greater of $470,000 or 10 percent of gross revenues. Trump Golf would also be required to pay 3 percent of gross revenues generated by any other sublicensed vendors at the golf course.
The course, now under construction on a former landfill in the shadow of the Whitestone Bridge in the southeast Bronx, is expected to be completed by the fall of 2013 and ready for play by the following spring. 
On Monday, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg defended the proposed arrangement with Mr. Trump’s company.
“I’m not sure he got a great deal,” Mr. Bloomberg said. He later added: “These are not terribly profitable things in this day and age. More golf courses are closing than opening across the country." 
Not so long ago, the proposed golf course seemed like a potential gold mine for the city. 
In 2000, the city granted a developer, Ferry Point Partners, a 35-year lease in exchange for financing the project. The developer also promised to pay the city at least $1.25 million in annual licensing fees. But construction of the course, which was scheduled to open in 2001, was plagued by problems, including the discovery of toxic substances in the soil, including high levels of methane gas from rotting garbage beneath the site.
By the time the parks department voided the contract in 2006, contending the developer had failed to meet the terms, the cost of the project had jumped and the completion date had been pushed to 2009. 
But efforts to find a new developer faltered, and in 2008, the city decided to build the course at its own expense, while seeking a private entity to operate it. 
Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe said on Monday that no one submitted offers until 2010, when three groups, including Mr. Trump’s, stepped forward. Parks officials said Mr. Trump’s bid was the best of the three offers, but his office declined on Monday to release the names and terms of the competing proposals. 
Mr. Trump, in prepared testimony before the franchise committee on Monday, said that the project would bring much-needed revenue to the city and other benefits, including discounted youth and school athletic programs. 
“For the first time in New York City history, we fully intend on bringing championship tour play to the Bronx,” he said.
The city’s franchise committee had been scheduled to vote on the deal on Wednesday but delayed the vote one week after the office of the Bronx borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr., asked for more time to review the project. 
Longtime proponents of the course, including the local community board and elected officials, praised the deal as long overdue, while acknowledging that they were still learning the details. 
“I’m still assessing it, to be honest with you,” said City Councilman James Vacca, a Bronx Democrat. “But I’m just not going to accept any further delays.” 
The path to a career in classical music often passes through Carnegie Hall. The stop is usually an appearance with a major orchestra or a debut recital, often financed by patrons, institutions or the artist. Sometimes Carnegie itself presents the performer
On Thursday evening the Uzbekistan-born pianist Lola Astanova will make her Carnegie debut in a benefit for the American Cancer Society. But Ms. Astanova — 26, little known in the classical world, and given to provocative poses and scanty outfits — will do it her own way, with an eye-popping brew of publicity, image making and celebrity stroking. 
A benefit performance is not a rarity of course. But Ms. Astanova, her publicists say, will be borrowing $850,000 in jewelry for the event from Tiffany & Company, a concert sponsor. And she will be playing one of Vladimir Horowitz’s Steinway pianos.
Julie Andrews is billed as a “special guest artist host.” And the gala chairman is Donald Trump, whose association with Chopin and Rachmaninoff brings a new sort of classiness to the man whose products are often called world class.
Mr. Trump will present an award to Ms. Andrews and will himself receive a lifetime achievement award from the Cancer Society. In a telephone interview he brushed aside the notion that classical music would add luster to his image but made the point that the art form could only benefit from Thursday’s event.
“I did it out of respect for Julie and out of great respect for the American Cancer Society,” Mr. Trump said. “It’s all about people watching and people talking. You may not have called if these various things were not taking place.”
The program includes works by Rachmaninoff, Chopin and Scriabin, and is billed as a tribute to Horowitz, whom Ms. Astanova has called her piano hero. Steinway agreed to lend the Horowitz Steinway, which had been in his town house for decades and now travels around to Steinway showrooms for marketing purposes.
The concert was put together partly by Palm Beach, Fla., supporters of the American Cancer Society, a recipient of Mr. Trump’s charity. The other force behind it is Misha Levintas, Ms. Astanova’s manager who is listed as executive producer. 
Mr. Levintas jump-started Ms. Astanova’s career by persuading Neiman Marcus to offer a performance by her with the Kirov Orchestra and the conductor Valery Gergiev as a $1.6 million fantasy gift in its 2007 Christmas catalog. (The purchaser would also get to keep the piano.) Nobody bought the gift, but “it did what it was supposed to do,” Mr. Levintas said. “It gave Lola tremendous exposure in wealthy circles,” and generated widespread publicity. That led to a series of lucrative private concerts. Then Ms. Astanova played Rachmaninoff’s Concerto No. 2 with the Palm Beach Symphony last year.
Cancer Society donors who were planning the Carnegie concert and tribute to Horowitz attended the concert and had a light-bulb moment.
“We found an artist who is Russian and kind of plays in the old style,” said Patrick Park, a regular on the Palm Beach social calendar who is an active charity fund-raiser. Ms. Astanova was engaged.
Mr. Levintas declined to provide financial details, although he said that Ms. Astanova is donating most of her fee. Renting Carnegie and paying personnel for an evening performance costs at least $21,000. Mr. Levintas acknowledged that Ms. Astanova’s striking physical appearance might have had something to do with her career trajectory, though that’s not unusual in the landscape of classical soloists. 
“What makes Lola unique in my opinion,” he said, “is the fact that she is a very young, very good-looking and very modern girl in many respects, but at the same time she performs with the depth and style of the old masters.”
In an interview one morning this week at a restaurant on the Upper West Side, where she lives, Ms. Astanova (pronounced ah-STAN-oh-vah in Russian but altered to ah-sta-NOH-vah for her American audience), said it helped to be young. “I like to think I have a pleasant personality,” she said. “If it weren’t for my musical abilities, it wouldn’t matter in the end.” 
She also emphasized her love of fashion. “It’s a way to express yourself artistically,” she said. At the restaurant she described her outfit: Jimmy Choo stiletto-heeled boots, Chanel sunglasses and handbag, H&M pants and an American Apparel sweater. “It’s mixing high end with accessible levels,” she said.
During the conversation Ms. Astanova gave the impression of being a shy person who had learned to handle interviews fairly well but without artifice. She spoke engagingly but maintained a certain reserve. She said she was tired and not a morning person, having stayed up until 2 a.m. doing a radio show.
Ms. Astanova grew up in Tashkent, the capital of Uzbekistan. Her father was a mechanical engineer, her mother a piano teacher. They spoke Russian at home. She studied locally and traveled regularly to Moscow to take lessons from Lev Naumov, a prominent teacher at the Moscow Conservatory. At 17 she settled in Houston, where her brother lived. She spent two years studying for a master’s degree from the Shepherd School of Music at Rice University. She later became a United States citizen.
Jon Kimura Parker was her main teacher at Rice, but the two parted ways toward the end, and she finished her studies with Robert Roux. Both remember her as innately talented. Mr. Parker called her “an obvious true performer right from the beginning” but one without much interest in being taught or moving outside her core repertory. 
“She already felt she had a personality and knew what she wanted to do,” Mr. Parker said. That awareness included the importance of promotion. Mr. Levintas, a Russian-born businessman who met her through mutual friends, was on the scene helping her career even at Rice, he said. Ms. Astanova’s required degree recital “began turning into a media event,” causing some friction with the other students, Mr. Parker said. “It wasn’t a good fit for what was happening at school.”
Ms. Astanova has built a YouTube following with her performances, some of which have tens of thousands of views. Her rendition of the Rihanna song “Don’t Stop the Music” has had nearly 1.5 million views. In one video on her YouTube channel Ms. Astanova is seen in profile, her back arched, gazing slightly upward in the middle distance as she plays Rachmaninoff. Her shirt rides up in back, letting a little flesh peek out. In another, she wears a leather minidress and throws her head back in seeming ecstasy at the end.
In the interview Ms. Astanova said she saw herself as a rebel, rejecting the competition circuit as stifling and intent on following her own path. But she said she looked forward to playing in other important halls with major conductors in what would be considered a more traditional classical music career.
“The way people perceive me,” she said, “is only going to help that.”
Over the objections of critics, Donald J. Trump has been cleared to run a new public golf course in the Bronx.
On Wednesday, the city approved a deal for Mr. Trump to manage an 18-hole complex that is to be built in Ferry Point Park, near the base of the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge.
In a special public meeting, the Franchise and Concession Review Committee, which must sign off on all businesses that operate in parks, voted 5 to 1 to allow Mr. Trump to run the course, scheduled to be completed by 2014, for 20 years.
For that privilege, Mr. Trump will pay licensing fees, though they will not start until after the fifth year of operations. Mr. Trump, who runs 10 other golf courses around the world, will also build a clubhouse at the site, which sits on a 222-acre former landfill. Golfers will pay up to $125 to play there.
But the city will shoulder the far larger tab, for the construction of the course, which is estimated to be $180 million. That taxpayers will be on the hook for the course has rankled many critics, who point out that under a similar deal a decade ago, a private developer was to pay for the construction. 
Additionally, they say, the licensing fees are meager compared with those produced by other city courses. 
In his fifth year of operation, Mr. Trump will pay either 7 percent of annual gross revenue or $300,000, whichever is greater. And the amount would rise annually, ending in Year 20 at the greater of $470,000 or 10 percent of gross revenue. That amount would be far less than fees generated last year at city courses like Clearview Park and La Tourette, according to parks department data. But officials say it is hard to compare those properties with Ferry Point because their operators did not build clubhouses. 
And Mr. Trump’s deal will generate more revenue than the two other proposals for the site, according to parks officials.
After the vote, Eric Trump, a vice president with the Trump Organization, only briefly addressed the criticisms. “We’re building an amazing clubhouse,” he said. “We want it to be symbolic of the Trump brand. We want it to be symbolic of the great city of New York.”
The lone no vote on Wednesday came from a representative of the office of John C. Liu, the comptroller, which takes issue with the way the deal has been structured.
“Ultimately the office of the comptroller was not comfortable with the compensation of the project,” Valerie Budzik, a lawyer with Mr. Liu’s office, said in a statement before the vote.
Mr. Liu’s office did amend the license, so the city can claim revenue from any TV programming that might be broadcast from the course, like the United States Open or Mr. Trump’s “The Apprentice” reality show, mentioned by name in the license. 
And, just in case that show gets canceled, the same rule applies to “any similar successor” show.
LAS VEGAS — Not since Don King’s last solo press conference had so much fabulous hair adorned a single Las Vegas venue. 
A day after Mitt Romney got himself in trouble by saying that he does not really worry about the very poor, he received the endorsement of the billionaire Donald Trump on Thursday, framed by gold plating in Mr. Trump’s hotel just off the Strip. As with all things Donald, the midday spectacle seemed to promise a Circus Circus of bombast, chaos and self-promotion — big surprises, towering supermodels, flying elephants and all that. 
Yet the proceeding reverted somewhat to the orderly rhythms of a front-running Republican presidential campaign, as if the celebrity noncandidate had ceded the spirit of the day to the all-business candidate. There was the feel of a campaign entering a new period, saying a farewell to the Sarah-Herman-Donald phase, and entering something, dare we say, more cautious, predictable, Romney-like. 
Secret Service agents — on their first day assigned to Mr. Romney — spread out across the room. The program lasted just seven minutes. Mr. Trump stood at the center of roving media scrums before and after the remarks. 
Still, the proceeding did not lack for surreal element, as Mr. Romney acknowledged immediately. “There are some things that you can’t imagine happening in your life,” he said. “And this is one of them.” 
Indeed, what the scene really demanded were those cinematic thought bubbles placed strategically over the heads of Mr. Romney and his wife, Ann, as they stood stiff-faced at the lectern with the thrice-married real estate and reality TV tycoon. As soon as the well-barbered One-Percenters took their places on the podium, provocative questions presented themselves:
1) Would Mr. Trump say something outrageous? 
2) Would Mr. Romney succeed in getting away as fast as mortally possible? 
3) Would Mrs. Romney keep a straight face through this whole thing? 
4) Would Mr. Trump break Mr. Romney’s right hand with an apparent death-grip of a handshake that persisted for several agonizing seconds?
The real cliff-hanger surrounding Mr. Trump resolved itself earlier in the day, after a number of news organizations, including The New York Times, reported overnight that he would be endorsing Newt Gingrich, while some said it would be Mr. Romney and others straddled (MSNBC: “Will Trump endorse Gingrich or Romney?”). 
In the event, Mr. Trump was all-in for Mr. Romney and on his best behavior at the lectern. He hit no off-message subjects (i.e. President Obama’s country of origin) or signature notes (“you’re fired”) that could have embarrassed Mr. Romney (“I like firing people”). 
He endorsed Mr. Romney with the broad-stroke simplicity of a parent describing a superhero to a scared child. “He’s not going to allow bad things to continue to happen to this country that we all love,” he said. 
As he spoke, the Romneys stood off to Mr. Trump’s right with slight smiles and hands folded at their waists. Per custom, Mr. Romney stood like a ramrod and kept his smile firm, but lapsed into a slight toe-bounce at one point, signifying possible — well, who knows? (Sometimes a slight toe-bounce is just a slight toe-bounce.)
Mrs. Romney is the lesser poker player. Her cheeks grew increasingly red through Mr. Trump’s remarks, and she appeared on the verge of either laughter or terror during the whole show. 
When it was Mr. Romney’s turn to speak, Mr. Trump assumed his place next to Mrs. Romney, and they stood together as an adoring couple joined in the service of Mr. Romney. While the Trump default face is one of pure satisfaction, the maven looked every bit the proud father when the candidate lauded “Donald Trump’s magnificent hotel.” As always, Mr. Romney reminded everyone that he had spent his life in the private sector — but added the caveat that he was “not quite as successful as this guy,” and Mr. Trump nodded the slow nod of a great man for whom respect had been paid. 
Big ticket imprimaturs have proven consistently worthless in this campaign — evidenced Gov. Nikki R. Haley’s backing of Mr. Romney in South Carolina (he was pummeled by Mr. Gingrich) and Mr. Gingrich’s nod from Herman Cain before the Florida primary (Mr. Romney won handily). Easily lost in the media catnip of the announcement was the question of whether Mr. Trump’s support would compel a single person to vote for Mr. Romney. 
The notion that it might was cast as absurd throughout the day by Mr. Romney’s rivals. “I can’t decide who to support,” wrote Jon Lovett, a former speechwriter in the Obama White House in a Twitter message. “I guess I’ll take my lead from one of America’s more garish and despicable figures.”
In his drive-by remarks, Mr. Romney stayed tethered to the electoral matter at hand, saying he was focused on securing the “endorsement of the people of Nevada.” He thanked Mr. Trump again, if nothing else for helping him to bury the unpleasantness of Wednesday — Mr. Romney’s “not caring about the very poor” remark — and the shower of glitter he received from protesters in Minnesota (or “confetti,” as Mr. Romney tried to spin it). 
By remarks’ end, the big question remaining was whether the Mane Men would consummate their alliance with a hug. Nope, no hug. Instead, they locked in a long and showy handshake that — by the looks of Mr. Romney’s slight cringe and pulling-away posture — seemed like it might have hurt a little.
NEW DELHI — Ranjan Mathai, the Indian foreign secretary, made the rounds in Washington last week, describing India’s relationship with the United States as one of growing comfort, depth and candor, if not perfect harmony. On that last point he could have been talking about the recent frictions between the two countries over Iran.
India’s determination to continue buying Iranian oil, despite sanctions and growing political pressure from the United States and Europe, has frustrated officials in Washington at a time when the forward momentum in the United States-India relationship has slowed, with differences over issues including civil nuclear cooperation, trade protectionism and military sales. 
The situation was exacerbated last week by news reports that India had become Iran’s top oil customer, while an Indian official announced plans to send a trade delegation to Tehran. In New Delhi, diplomats and analysts say India’s purchasing of Iranian oil is a matter of economic necessity, given its dependence on imported oil. Some say the purchases also represent diplomatic hedging in a region bracing for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan by 2014, or possibly sooner.
Indeed, many Indian officials, even those supportive of a stronger partnership with the United States, caution against turning issues like Iran into diplomatic litmus tests, considering the complexities of a neighborhood in which India represents a bulwark of stability, democracy and economic opportunity compared with Pakistan, Afghanistan and other countries.
“This can’t be a test of our friendship,” said Lalit Mansingh, a former Indian ambassador to the United States. “Washington must realize that we are in a neighborhood where Iran is a factor.”
India’s most immediate concern is fueling its economy, which has slowed in the past year. India buys about 12 percent of its crude oil from Iran, and many Indian refineries have been built to run solely on Iranian crude, meaning they would have to be retrofitted in order to process oil from other countries.
“To shift is not something that can be done very easily,” said one senior Indian official, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity given the delicacy of the situation. The official added: “Where would we get that refining capacity? Who would be our new suppliers?”
Even so, India has tried for several years to reduce its dependence on Iranian crude oil, partly because of the new sanctions by the Obama administration punishing any banks that do business with Iran. To work around these sanctions, Indian oil companies have made payments to Iran through a bank in Turkey that fell outside the American restrictions.
However, Indian officials are preparing for the likelihood that the Turkish avenue may soon be closed. The senior Indian official confirmed recent reports that India and Iran had agreed on a deal in which Indian companies would pay for 45 percent of their imports in Indian rupees — thus avoiding the need to pay in dollars — and might even settle the remainder of the debts through barter.
Last month, Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and leader of the India Caucus in Congress, met with several government ministers in New Delhi. “The issue came up,” Mr. Warner said of Iran in an interview last month. “The Indians raised the concern that this has immediate economic impact upon them. We acknowledged that this was a blunt instrument, sanctions, but that the status quo in Iran was not working.”
Like the United States, India is alarmed at the possibility of Iran’s developing nuclear weapons, and it has called on Iran to fulfill its obligations as a nonnuclear weapon state under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. Indian diplomats, though, also worry about the economic impact of greater instability in Iran and the Persian Gulf region; they say more than six million Indians work in the gulf, sending home roughly $40 billion a year in remittances. 
Iran is also a factor in the uncertain endgame in Afghanistan. K. C. Singh, a former Indian ambassador in Tehran, said India and Iran cooperated to support the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance before the fall of the Taliban in 2001. But that relationship cooled as American troops settled in Afghanistan, and India and the United States moved closer together. Now, though, Mr. Singh said India was “scampering to recover” its relationship with Iran as a hedge to prepare for an uncertain future in Afghanistan.
“They are attempting to do it now out of some serious concerns about what may happen after 2014, or earlier,” Mr. Singh said. 
Even so, India’s current leaders remain committed to ever-strengthening ties with the United States. In a speech on Monday in Washington, Mr. Mathai spoke of the great potential of the two nations’ partnership, if also the complexities embedded into it.
“Given our different circumstances, history, location and levels of development, we will occasionally have differing perspectives and policies,” he said, according to a transcript of his speech. “But this can be a source of great value and strength.”
WASHINGTON — As some Republican leaders wring their hands at the prospect of a drawn-out nominating contest, many of the 10,000 people attending the Conservative Political Action Conference, which ended here Saturday with a rousing speech by Sarah Palin, did not seem too concerned. 
As they met and talked over three days, they seemed far from ready to close in on a single candidate to carry their banner in November against a president they believe has been a disaster. 
“I’m not worried — it just makes for a better candidate,” Ed H. Moore, 60, president of a private college association in Tallahassee, Fla., said of the primaries. “The base will be energized.” 
The likelihood of a continued battle was underscored by the results of the annual straw poll of the conservative activists.
Mitt Romney won with 38 percent of the 3,408 votes cast here, compared with 31 percent for Rick Santorum, 15 percent for Newt Gingrich and 12 percent for Representative Ron Paul, who did not attend the meeting this year. 
Reading into the results is difficult because the voting pool is affected by who attends the conference and by the candidates’ own efforts to mobilize supporters. 
For Mr. Romney, the vote had to be small but welcome news, along with his victory in the Maine caucuses on Saturday. But he did not gain a majority in the poll, and Mr. Santorum and Mr. Gingrich together outpolled him. 
Many of those attending the conference, known as CPAC, said that they had preferences among the candidates but that the ultimate nominee mattered less than their dislike of President Obama. In dozens of interviews, virtually everyone said the same thing: “Anybody but Obama.” 
Or, as Robert Kitchens, a retiree from Houston, put it, “I’m interested in saving the country.” 
In an interview before her speech, Ms. Palin, the former vice-presidential nominee, said that Republicans should be in no hurry to end the nominating contest. A competitive campaign right to the August convention in Tampa, Fla., she said, would not complicate the party’s efforts to defeat Mr. Obama.
The Obama administration’s clash last week with religious leaders over insurance coverage for contraception only magnified the anti-Obama spirit here. 
Whatever their putative topic, most of the conference speakers seized on the contraception issue, saying it had revealed to the country Mr. Obama’s true anti-constitutional colors. Few were mollified by the modifications Mr. Obama offered on Friday. 
In a speech, Mike Huckabee, a former Arkansas governor and a Baptist minister, criticized what he called a severe threat to religious freedom and the First Amendment. 
“Thanks to President Obama, we are all Catholics now,” he said, recalling if altering President John F. Kennedy’s famous “I am a Berliner” declaration. 
The requirement for contraceptive coverage was widely described as a harbinger of deeper incursions on freedom that would occur if Mr. Obama were re-elected. 
In one example of the harsh accusations, Wayne LaPierre, the executive vice president of the National Rifle Association, said that while the president had not actually tried to rein in gun ownership yet, “he’s hiding his true intentions to destroy the Second Amendment in his second term.” 
“We’re on the brink of seeing our freedom destroyed,” Mr. LaPierre said. 
The conference, which is sponsored by the American Conservative Union, is the largest annual gathering of conservatives, a political festival intended to lay out battle themes. 
With the Republican candidates vying for allegiance, this year’s event had an unusual excitement. A booth for Mr. Santorum in the exhibition hall had sold 250 navy blue sweater vests by Friday night. 
Half of the crowd were college students, many of whom said they were thrilled to rub shoulders with A-list politicians like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, as well as leaders from groups like the Heritage Foundation and the National Organization for Marriage. Fox News correspondents were also a draw, with many students asking them to pose for iPhone snapshots. 
The appearances by Mr. Santorum, Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich were highlights, though they did not appear to change many minds.
But no one drew a more excited response than Ms. Palin. More than two hours before her speech, people formed a long line to enter the hall, and the organizers had to arrange for overflow rooms with video. 
“She’s our hero,” said Barbara Delo, a nurse in her 50s from Blauvelt, N.Y. 
Ms. Palin gave a trademark speech filled with references to God, guns, the right to life and a strong defense. She mocked Mr. Obama, adopting his phrases “yes, we can” and “change we can believe in” to describe the effort to unseat him. 
Ms. Palin said that “competition strengthens us,” referring to the primary race. But she appealed to the candidates to tone down personal attacks. “Make sure it brings out the best in our party,” she said.
Maurice André, a virtuoso credited with having transformed the trumpet from a workaday cog in the back of the orchestra into a seductive solo instrument in front, died on Feb. 25 in Bayonne, in southwest France. He was 78.
His family confirmed the death to the news agency Agence France-Presse, declining to specify the cause.
Mr. André, who began his professional life as a coal miner, was esteemed as a trumpeter for his warm, robust tone; lightning technique; and clarion high notes, whose stratospheric reaches could prompt waves of applause from audiences.
What potential for showmanship his gifts entailed was mitigated, most critics agreed, by his sensitive musicianship, which let him spin out lyrical, shapely lines much as a singer would.
By all accounts, Mr. André was to the trumpet what Jean-Pierre Rampal was to the flute or Pablo Casals to the cello: a player whose instrument, long considered a mainstay of the orchestral ark, became, in his hands, the fleet, dazzling tool of a concerto soloist.
“Trumpet players play in orchestras; that’s what we do,” the conductor Gerard Schwarz, who is a former co-principal trumpeter of the New York Philharmonic, said in a telephone interview on Friday. “Maurice was the only one to actually have a real major career as a soloist and have a real following from audiences all over the world.”
From the 1960s until his retirement less than 10 years ago, Mr. André was ubiquitous as a soloist with major orchestras, in recital and on hundreds of recordings.
He specialized in Baroque repertory, notably the work of Bach, Handel and Telemann. As his interpretations showed, however, he felt relatively unfettered by the more staid — if more faithful — historical performance practices that were gaining popularity in the second half of the 20th century.
“He was certainly not a purist,” Mr. Schwarz recalled. “If he felt that it would be more exciting to take the last few notes of any concerto up an octave, he would do that. He really cared deeply about the audience, and he really wanted to make them enjoy themselves.”
The repertory for solo trumpet is scant. To compensate, Mr. André performed transcriptions of many Baroque pieces for solo violin, voice and especially oboe. He occasionally commissioned new works from composers like André Jolivet, Henri Tomasi and Jean Langlais.
He was also an enthusiastic ambassador for the piccolo trumpet, the trumpet’s smaller, higher brother, heard most famously in Bach’s Second Brandenburg Concerto. Mr. André, who performed on the instrument often, was far from piccolo himself, and in his hamlike hands the instrument seemed practically to vanish.
Maurice André was born on May 21, 1933, near Alès, in the south of France. His father was a coal miner and amateur trumpeter, and at 14 Maurice entered the mines, where he worked for the next four years. The tons of coal he hauled, he later said, gave him the stamina that made his pyrotechnic playing possible.
He began learning the cornet as a boy and later switched to the trumpet. After private lessons with a local teacher, he was encouraged to study at the Conservatoire de Paris.
His family could not afford to send him, but it was discovered that members of military bands received free tuition. He joined the Eighth Regiment band, stationed at Mont-Valérien, outside Paris, and enrolled in the conservatory. After graduating in 1953, the young Mr. André held posts in several French orchestras before embarking on a solo career.
In retirement, Mr. André lived in the Basque country of southwest France. Survivors include his wife, Liliane; a son, Nicolas, a trumpeter; and a daughter Béatrice, an oboist.
Among his recordings are a series released by the Musical Heritage Society in the 1960s and afterward, including “Six Trumpet Concertos,” featuring works by Vivaldi, Tartini and Albinoni; the Shostakovich concerto for piano, trumpet and string orchestra, with the pianist Annie d’Arco; and “Music for Trumpet and Organ,” with Marie-Claire Alain.
Besides possessing physical strength born of the coal mines, Mr. André had strength of another kind. This, too, he made clear, helped sustain him in performance, where he might be obliged to slice through anything from a full symphony orchestra to a thundering pipe organ.
“It takes a strong personality to make an impact with the trumpet,” he told The New York Times in 1983. “You’re like a matador in a bull ring. I see flutists and oboists go on the stage gingerly. If you do that with the trumpet you’re finished. You have to go on as a winner.”
When Donald G. Fisher, the founder of the Gap clothing chain, began expanding in Manhattan in the 1990s, “he would stand in front of a space, see how many people walked by, and say, ‘Hey, this looks like a good spot,’ ” said Robert K. Futterman, the founder of the retail brokerage RKF, who represented the company in some leases. 
The retail leasing business has come a long way since then. Companies like the Gap pore over maps detailing subway access and foot traffic, as well as wealth profiles of nearby residents and sales figures for neighboring stores before agreeing to move to a new location.
And rather than the company founder visiting a site, it is more common for real estate consultants and other executives to make these decisions. It is all part of the shift in retail real estate over the last decade away from a tight-knit group of brokers, tenants and local landlords toward large brokerage firms advising multinational retail chains and institutional landlords. 
“Gut instinct is no longer sufficient,” said Jeffrey D. Roseman, an executive vice president and a principal at Newmark Knight Frank who has been in the business since 1986. “You need to have done your homework and provide your clients with data showing why the space is right for them.”
In New York, the proliferation of national and global chain stores and fashion brands in places like Times Square and SoHo has raised the stakes. Retail rents in Manhattan are some of the most expensive in the country, regularly topping $1,500 a square foot. In the costliest corridor, along Fifth Avenue between 49th and 59th Street, rents averaged $2,550 a square foot in the fourth quarter of 2011 — a 64 percent increase from the market downturn two years ago, according to CBRE. 
There are some 500 retail brokers in the city, estimates Joanne Podell, an executive vice president of Cushman & Wakefield, though there are no official numbers. Those in the industry say the ranks have been growing, in part because as retail rents rise, so does the potential for large commissions. Mr. Futterman, for example, said that more than 10 brokers at his company earned at least $2 million last year. 
Retail brokerage came into its own as a real estate specialty when Garrick-Aug Associates, one of the first retail-only firms, opened its doors in 1975. Many of today’s most established brokers came from its ranks, including Mr. Futterman. In the 1980s, other firms expanded their retail business, including CBRE and Cushman & Wakefield. The industry was still relatively specialized, however, and “seen as second class by many brokers” compared with the more glamorous, and established, business of commercial office leasing, Mr. Roseman said.
“It used to be that New York was small, with retail almost exclusively focused on Greenwich Village, Midtown and the Upper East Side,” said Benjamin Fox, an executive vice president of retail leasing at Massey Knakal Realty Services. Mr. Fox, another alumnus of Garrick-Aug (the firm closed in 2007), joined Massey Knakal last year from Winick Realty Group to start its retail team. “Every building had its own leasing agent who would also do the retail, and leases were just a four- or five-page document you would sign in a lawyer’s office.” 
In the last decade, the field has become far more competitive and professionalized, industry insiders said. In some cases, it has been a hard transition. “There are so many retail brokers now, it is increasingly hard to find opportunities and make deals,” Mr. Fox said. “After 30 years, my earning chart is very up and down; it is a tough way to live and it isn’t for everybody.”
As the retail sector has matured and grown more competitive, it has also become an increasingly significant part of commercial real estate as the rents and value of the space have risen. Retail now “is a critical piece of the puzzle because it directly plays into the branding and prestige of an office building,” said Matthew Van Buren, the president of CBRE for the New York, New Jersey and Connecticut region. 
The advent of digital technology has turned retail deals into a game of numbers. Ms. Podell said she recently reviewed one client’s portfolio of stores, and using customer ZIP codes, sales figures, store size and other particulars, “we built a model that showed us the ideal store size, where the majority of their customers were coming from, the importance of subway access.”
But while the retail industry has become more competitive and sophisticated, there is still very little transparency in terms of asking rents, availability and lease expirations. Unlike the office space market, where data companies like CoStar track much of the information, retail data is mostly compiled by the brokerage firms themselves and remains largely proprietary and hidden. 
One company trying to make the process of finding and advertising retail spaces more efficient is RetailMLS.com, which plans an online database of listings. The company’s Web site is set to go live in May in test form to a closed network of brokerage firms, said Benjamin M. Zises, the founder and chief executive. 
At first, the service will be available only to brokers, but may eventually be opened to the public, said Mr. Zises, who was a retail broker at Mogull Realty. 
With such little transparency, retail brokers often find themselves playing the role of private detective to reach landlords. In New York, many stores are within residential co-op buildings that are run by a board of residents, or are owned by small landlords who can be difficult to find. 
“Typically, good retail areas have very low vacancy rates,” said Amira Yunis, an executive vice president of CBRE, “and finding out who owns which buildings, who are the decision makers and when leases come due can be very hard to figure out.” She said that roughly 35 percent of her deals were for spaces that were not officially on the market, and that she spent significant portions of her days forming relationships with landlords and retailers to find hidden deals. 
The competition among brokerages to retain or recruit top producers can be tough. Ms. Yunis recently jumped to CBRE after spending much of her career at Newmark Knight Frank. Though she sees herself as a relative newcomer to the industry after 12 years representing retailers, she has closed a number of prominent deals, including in 2006 bringing the first Trader Joe’s grocery to New York City with a lease on 14th Street.
Ms. Yunis said brokers who were women offered “a unique perspective.” “I love to shop, I like architecture and design, so this gives me an edge,” she said. 
Scott D. Galin, a principal of the Handler Real Estate Organization, said retail brokers played a more critical role than ever, with the economic recovery still fragile. Mr. Galin, who spent 30 years as a retailer before joining Handler, a landlord and brokerage firm, said retailers “are much more cautious now, reducing their footprints and being more selective in opening new stores.” 
Because New York has the added risk for retailers of high rents, he said, “local knowledge is critical. I don’t care how big your chain store is, if you live 1,000 miles away you aren’t going to know the eccentricities of different areas, like why one corner is better than another corner. Only a broker can tell you that.” 
WASHINGTON — Presidents running for re-election typically boast of programs they created, people they helped or laws they signed. They talk about rising test scores or falling deficits or expanding job rolls. President Obama is increasingly taking the unusual route of bragging about how he killed a man.
To be sure, that man was Osama bin Laden, and he is not mourned among either the president’s supporters or detractors. But in the days leading up to the first anniversary of the raid that finally caught up to the Qaeda mastermind, Mr. Obama has made a concerted, if to some indecorous, effort to trumpet the killing as perhaps the central accomplishment of his presidency.
Mr. Obama has used the rarefied setting of the Situation Room to give an interview about how he made the decision to send in Special Operations forces. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. gave a speech saying the re-election slogan would be “Bin Laden is dead and General Motors is alive.” The president’s campaign released a Web video showing former President Bill Clinton praising Mr. Obama’s fortitude, as it questioned whether Mitt Romney would have made the same decision.
Other presidents have boasted of their toughness, of course, notably Mr. Obama’s predecessor, George W. Bush, who campaigned for re-election in 2004 on a record of having deposed Saddam Hussein in Iraq, while his vice president, Dick Cheney, warned that electing John Kerry could lead to a terrorist attack. But few presidents have talked about the killing of an individual enemy in such an expansive way.
No doubt, the raid on a house in Abbottabad, Pakistan, a year ago Tuesday is a more favorable story for the president politically than the latest report showing slowing economic growth. With the general election effectively under way, it is part of an effort by both sides to define Mr. Obama’s presidency.
Senator John McCain of Arizona, Mr. Obama’s Republican opponent four years ago, lashed out at the Web video, saying the president was turning “the one decision he got right into a pathetic, political act of self-congratulation.” He added, “Shame on Barack Obama for diminishing the memory of September 11th and the killing of Osama bin Laden by turning it into a cheap political attack ad.”
Heading into a weekend in which Mr. Obama will appear with the comedian Jimmy Kimmel before a star-studded crowd at the White House Correspondents’ Association dinner, Mr. Romney and his allies once again tried to turn Mr. Obama’s own celebrity against him.
A Web video released this week by American Crossroads, a Republican “super PAC,” made the case that the president’s focus on image had preoccupied him from more important issues, mocking his mingling with the stars, including his “slow-jamming the news” with Jimmy Fallon on “Late Night” this week.
“Four years ago, America elected the biggest celebrity in the world, and Americans got one cool president,” the video says amid grim images and statistics on out-of-work recent college graduates. “But after four years of a celebrity president, is your life any better?”
The Romney team amplified the message on Friday in a memorandum from the campaign manager, Matt Rhoades, arguing that Mr. Obama was counting on “his winning TV persona” for re-election. “This election will be decided by adults casting their ballots in their precincts, not teenagers texting votes from in front of their television sets,” Mr. Rhoades wrote. “That apparently frightens the president and his advisers.”
The contrast between the two campaign videos could not be starker. Set to ominous music and narrated by Mr. Clinton, the Bin Laden video describes the life-or-death stakes that confronted Mr. Obama and shows him standing silhouetted in front of an Oval Office window, shouldering the burdens of a nation.
The ad then presents Mr. Romney as if he were the one not ready to lead, saying, “Which path would Mitt Romney have taken?”
Claiming public credit for national security victories has long been a balancing act for presidents. Mr. Bush was criticized when a Republican ad showed pictures of ground zero. 
Mr. Obama has been finding ways of talking about the Bin Laden raid for months. When a reporter asked in December about charges that he was appeasing the nation’s enemies, Mr. Obama offered a strikingly blunt retort. “Ask Osama bin Laden and the 22 out of 30 top Al Qaeda leaders who have been taken off the field whether I engage in appeasement,” he said. “Or whoever’s left out there about that.”
He then cited his leadership in the Bin Laden raid both in the opening passages of his State of the Union address in January and again in the closing sections, always making sure to credit the military and intelligence agencies. But the focus has intensified with the approach of the anniversary. On Thursday, he gave an interview to Brian Williams of NBC News in the Situation Room. 
Tony Fratto, a deputy press secretary under Mr. Bush, said that it was “unseemly” to use the room for such a purpose. “I don’t believe it ever would have occurred to us to conduct an interview in the Situation Room,” he said, “and don’t believe we would have considered it appropriate.”
Joshua Earnest, Mr. Obama’s deputy press secretary, said the White House was responding to news media requests. “There certainly is interest around the one-year anniversary, so I’d be surprised if nobody asked about it in the context of the one-year anniversary,” he said.
Martha Joynt Kumar, a Towson University specialist in presidential communication, said it was not surprising that Mr. Obama would use the Situation Room to argue his case. “When they are running for re-election, presidents favor discussions of their successes,” she said. “The killing of Bin Laden is a natural item for President Obama to highlight.”
The anniversary has rekindled some of the longstanding debates about the methods that Mr. Bush and Mr. Obama have used to combat terrorism. Jose A. Rodriguez Jr., a former top Central Intelligence Agency official, defended the harsh interrogations of prisoners under Mr. Bush by contrasting them with Mr. Obama’s use of drones to kill suspected terrorists.
“How could it be more ethical to kill people rather than capture them?” he asked in a segment taped for Sunday’s episode of “60 Minutes” on CBS.
An official familiar with a still-incomplete investigation by the Democratic staff of the Senate Intelligence Committee said the evidence did not support Mr. Rodriguez’s assertion that the rough methods, widely condemned as torture, were necessary. 
LONDON — In the end, one had to wonder which would turn out to be more dramatic: The goings-on in the audience or the actual play unfolding on stage. I’m sure I wasn’t the only theatergoer who arrived at Shakespeare’s Globe on Monday night unsure whether the play would be allowed to be the thing or whether circumstances surrounding the performance would hijack the art.
Across the five weeks of the Globe to Globe festival so far, a mind-bending sequence of productions from around the world in as many different languages as there are Shakespeare plays, 37, the atmosphere had been one of inclusion, conviviality and erudition coupled with fun. 
I won’t soon forget the muscularity of the Maori-language “Troilus and Cressida” or the giddiness of the “Romeo and Juliet” from the Brazilian troupe Grupo Galpao, featuring a stilt-walking Romeo and a Juliet performed, ballet-style, on point. Oh, and a Nurse with two pairs of breasts.
Two Asian companies illuminated the comic end of the spectrum, not least a Gujarati-language “All’s Well That Ends Well” that arguably amplified the play’s women beyond the stature allowed them in the text.
But come the first of two performances on successive nights of “The Merchant of Venice” and spectators were met with airport-style security, advance notices of “conditions of entry” and a note by the box office informing patrons that missiles, among other items, would not be allowed into one of London’s most beloved theatrical addresses.
 The reason for the prevailing uncertainty lay in the visit to London of the Habima Theatre from Israel, amid fears of further disruptions of the sort that have lately greeted other Israeli cultural emissaries to the United Kingdom . Last September, the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra arrived at the capacious Royal Albert Hall only to field repeated vocal protests from within the auditorium.
And here, nearly nine months later, was Israel’s national theater finding that many a distinguished cultural figure in Britain wanted the troupe’s visit to the Globe called off because of its touring activities back home. Emma Thompson, Mike Leigh and the Globe’s own onetime artistic director, Mark Rylance, were among signatories to a letter in March incensed that Habima had performed in Israeli settlements in the West Bank.
The context for the director Ilan Ronen’s Hebrew-language production of “Merchant,” therefore, was clear: Shylock’s wasn’t the only trial in town. What’s more, how would a troupe from Israel tackle a play seen by many to be anti-Semitic?
The show went on in something resembling triumph, with a robust standing ovation and multiple curtain calls for the happy, relieved-looking cast. But there were protesters in evidence within the tiered ranks of the house and among those standing in the courtyard of the Globe. One man waited for a climactic moment in Shylock’s humiliation before revising the “hath not a Jew eyes?” speech to incorporate “Palestinian” instead. He was quickly hustled away.
The evening for the most part kept faith with the sage advisory of the Globe’s leader, Dominic Dromgoole, who took to the stage before the performance to remind patrons that they were watching not politicians or policymakers but “artists coming here to tell a story.” And if there were disturbances? The Globe could take them in its stride, Mr. Dromgoole said, going on to note that such distractions on his premises more often came from people fainting — or from the odd pigeon.
In production terms, Mr. Ronen’s period-dress “Merchant” was a middling affair with an outstanding performance at its core, as well as the most purposefully Venetian staging of this ever-vexatious text that I have seen.
With the play’s Christians attired in neutral colors at odds with the malignancy of their acts, we got a very real sense of the city at Carnival time, masks and all. A neat visual gag, repeated several times over, saw various cast members propelling themselves across the stage as if on unseen gondolas, and there was a knockabout feel to the casket scenes here, with one or another performer sporting the chests as headgear.
But the play’s defining dynamic has to be that between the moneylender Shylock and a community that despises him but needs his cash. Mr. Ronen set the stakes high from the start with a scene of raucous high spirits that devolved into a shocking assault on Shylock, who is stripped of his religious vestments, thrown to the ground and kicked. West End audiences can find a modern-day equivalent of much the same encounter, minus the religious context, in Laura Wade’s play, “Posh.”
Jacob Cohen’s slightly built, enormously affecting Shylock presented a man bloodied but not easily bowed. His comeuppance in court at the hand of the disguised Portia saw Shylock shrouded by the very document that he thought would result in his pound of flesh from Antonio, a mock prayer shawl made out of reams of paper that led to the actor falling to the ground like a marionette suddenly gone limp. (The rather laborious visual metaphor across the evening was yard after yard of rope, deployed as an emblem of the numerous bonds that ensnare this money-obsessed assemblage.)
But, Mr. Cohen’s skills notwithstanding, this was not a one-man show. In remarkable ringlets, Hila Feldman cut an unsentimental Portia in thrall to the dictates of her dead father yet uncertain about her romantic prospects, and Tomer Sharon brought a robust singing voice to Launcelot Gobbo, the servant who makes painfully clear just whose company he would prefer to keep. 
Several of the young lovers fell into the colorless or the cloying, but rare is the Lorenzo who can make much of this character’s fifth act lyricism given a play that by then has focused our sympathies elsewhere.
If the production ultimately fell away, that’s pretty much in keeping with a putative “comedy” whose romantic hi-jinks don’t tally in modern times with our distaste for the three couples that come together by the end, one of which, of course, includes Shylock’s disaffected daughter, Jessica.
But Mr. Ronen gave the closing image to the inestimable Mr. Cohen, who was seen circumnavigating the stage one final time, a man in exile but still upright and in search of a home: A resonant image that reached well beyond the riverside environs of the Globe.
By that point, all protest within the theater had fallen away, too — although it resumed after the show as the police kept various belligerents apart on the street immediately outside.
Can art be said to have had the last word? That was hard to determine given political complexities that come with their own imperatives. Let’s just say that this season of Shakespeares has proved in every way a remarkable prism through which much more has been refracted than just the plays.
The sequence continues this week with companies from Spain, Afghanistan, Germany, France and Lithuania, the lineup of visitors drawing to a close on June 3 with “Hamlet.”
After that, in global terms at least, the rest is silence, though hearing the Bard in English again is surely going to feel very strange.
LAS VEGAS — It was supposed to be a day of triumph for Mitt Romney, when he would at last formally claim the Republican presidential nomination with a victory in the Texas primary. And Mr. Romney was to focus attention on an aggressive new attack on President Obama, highlighting the White House’s role in backing failed companies like Solyndra.
Instead, Tuesday was hijacked by Donald J. Trump. Inexplicably to many in his party, Mr. Romney had scheduled an appearance at a fund-raiser in Las Vegas on Tuesday night with Mr. Trump. 
And Mr. Trump, ever ready to seize the spotlight and toss rhetorical grenades, played to type in several interviews, repeating his doubts about the president’s Hawaiian birth certificate. 
“A lot of people do not think it was an authentic certificate,” Mr. Trump said in a combative interview with Wolf Blitzer on CNN. “Now, you won’t report it, Wolf, but many people do not think it was authentic.” 
That and other statements left the Romney campaign to fend off questions about the candidate’s views on that long-discredited accusation and whether he was willing to tolerate extreme views for his own political gain.
During a brief conversation with reporters on Monday, before Mr. Trump’s latest comments, Mr. Romney sought to compartmentalize Mr. Trump’s fund-raising prowess as separate and apart from his conspiratorial accusations. 
“You know, I don’t agree with all the people who support me, and my guess is they don’t all agree with everything I believe in,” he told reporters. “But I need to get 50.1 percent or more, and I’m appreciative to have the help of a lot of good people.”
Aides to Mr. Romney said he does not question the president’s birthplace. In an e-mail statement on Tuesday, Andrea Saul, a campaign spokeswoman, wrote, “Governor Romney has said repeatedly that he believes President Obama was born in the United States.”
But during campaign events on Tuesday, Mr. Romney showed little willingness to distance himself from Mr. Trump or address further questions. He broke from his recent practice of making himself available to reporters on his plane or on the rope line. He also canceled some interviews with local news media. 
Mr. Obama’s campaign, meanwhile, seized upon Mr. Trump’s comments, releasing a Web video on Tuesday morning that accused Mr. Romney of being unwilling to stand up to “voices of extremism.”
The video notes that during the 2008 presidential campaign, Senator John McCain of Arizona corrected extreme voices he encountered at town-hall-style meetings.
“Why won’t Mitt Romney do the same?” the video asks as it plays snippets of Mr. Trump questioning the president’s birthplace.
This is not the first time Mr. Romney has been criticized for not taking a strong enough stance on a controversial issue. In March, he was asked to comment on Sandra Fluke, a law school student who was called a “slut” and a “prostitute” by the radio host Rush Limbaugh after she testified before Congress in favor of employers’ covering birth control for all women. Mr. Romney said of Mr. Limbaugh’s remarks, “It’s not the language I would have used.”
And at a town-hall-style meeting this month, Mr. Romney at first did not offer a public rebuke of a female supporter who stood and said Mr. Obama “should be tried for treason.” He later clarified to reporters on the rope line that he did not agree with the woman’s remarks.
With Mr. Trump, the Romney campaign privately maintains an attitude of quiet exasperation and good-natured eye-rolling, but it is reluctant to criticize him publicly. He is a prolific fund-raiser and willing surrogate whose fame and following can marshal both top-dollar and small-money donors. 
In April, Mr. Trump hauled in $600,000 at a fund-raiser celebrating Ann Romney’s birthday. And the campaign is raffling off a fantasy day with Mr. Trump, with tickets starting at $3, as part of its effort to raise $300,000 in small donations. 
The fund-raiser in Las Vegas, expected to bring in $2 million, was on Mr. Romney’s schedule before Mr. Trump was associated with it as part of a Western swing that includes two fund-raising events on Wednesday in California and meetings with other supporters and officials (among them, Sheldon Adelson, the billionaire casino owner and Republican donor with whom Mr. Romney ate lunch on Tuesday). 
Many Republicans have questioned whether Mr. Trump is worth the headache. “I’ve always thought Romney would gain a lot more mileage by stiff-arming Trump,” said Mark McKinnon, a Republican strategist. “I think who Romney stands with says a lot about what he’ll stand for. Associating with Trump seems to only reinforce the narrative on Romney that Team Obama wants to push. Which is that Romney is an out-of-touch rich guy without any real core, which means he’ll associate with anyone if he thinks it will further his ambition.”
Over the weekend, the conservative columnist George F. Will caustically questioned whether Mr. Trump could widen Mr. Romney’s support.
“What voter is going to vote for him because he’s seen with Donald Trump?” Mr. Will asked Sunday on the ABC News program “This Week.” “The cost of appearing with this bloviating ignoramus is obvious, it seems to me. Donald Trump is redundant evidence that if your net worth is high enough, your I.Q. can be very low and you can still intrude into American politics.”
The relationship between the buttoned-up former governor of Massachusetts and the man who sometimes refers to himself as “The Donald” has never been an easy or obvious one.
In a September meeting in Midtown Manhattan, Mr. Romney’s aides took great pains to sneak Mr. Romney past the assembled journalists to ensure that no photos of the two men together would surface.
A few months later in Las Vegas, Mr. Trump’s official endorsement of Mr. Romney lasted under seven minutes and included no questions. 
“There are some things that you just can’t imagine happening in your life,” Mr. Romney said at the time. “This is one of them.” 
In Las Vegas on Tuesday, Romney supporters seemed just as surprised at the pairing. Joe Godwin, 69, said he was disappointed that Mr. Romney would appear on stage with Mr. Trump, given his extreme brand of politics. “Trump is a highly negative figure,” Mr. Godwin said. “I don’t see any advantage for Romney to do this.” 
“Once you get past Trump’s hair,” Mr. Godwin said, “there is no substance.” 
BERLIN — The bargaining has begun over a deal to rescue Spain’s ailing banks, confronting Europe with urgent choices about whether to try to enforce onerous bailout terms on Madrid as the crisis spreads to the region’s largest economies.
The question has seemingly become one of when, and not if, Spain’s banks will receive assistance from European countries, with investors on Wednesday predicting an imminent rescue and pushing up stocks and bonds on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Spain, the euro zone’s fourth-largest economy, is too big to fail and possibly too big to steamroll, changing the balance of power in negotiations over a bailout. Political leaders in Madrid are insisting that emergency aid to their banks avoid the stigma in capital markets that has hobbled countries like Greece, Portugal and Ireland after accepting tough rescue terms. They are also fighting to slow the pace of austerity and economic change that have pushed those smaller countries into deeper recessions.
Spain has the added advantage of seeking help in a changed political environment in which calls for growth have begun to outweigh German insistence on austerity. Unlike Greece, Spain’s government did not run large budget deficits before the crisis, giving it leverage to argue that European aid to its banks should not come weighed down with a politically delicate loss of decision-making power over its own economic and fiscal policies.
Madrid’s trump card in this latest game of euro-zone poker is that the consequences of a Spanish default and exit from the euro zone would probably be so catastrophic that policy makers in Berlin will be willing to bend their bailout rules for Spain, and are on the verge of doing just that. 
German officials have said they are prepared to weather a Greek exit from the euro if necessary, but no such claims are made about Spain. As such, Spanish leaders, who feel Madrid has already made many painful changes and spending cuts, are holding out for a deal that requires only a tightening of oversight on the financial sector and no strings attached to the country’s budget powers. 
Spain also appears to be forcing a reckoning about the expensive steps political leaders in Europe need to take if they want to hold the euro zone together. Hopes that the European Central Bank would ride to the rescue, as it did with two waves of generous loans to Europe’s banks in December and March, or at the very least cut interest rates, now at 1 percent, were dashed when the bank’s president, Mario Draghi, said Wednesday that he did not “think it would be right for monetary policy to fill other institutions’ lack of action.”
“Some of these problems in the euro area have nothing to do with monetary policy,” Mr. Draghi said at a news conference, his message to European leaders boiled down to: “Your problem, not mine.”
The wrangling over Spain underlines the way the European Union stumbles to solutions for each problem as it arises. Frustration has grown over the uncertainty afflicting the global economy as a result of Europe’s instability and the toll it takes on an already slowing growth rate.
“The strategy of plugging holes only works for so long,” said Friedrich Mostböck, chief economist and head of research for the Erste Group in Vienna. “Eventually, you come to the point where a common euro area requires a common fiscal policy.”
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy of Spain has made clear that he intends to draw a distinction between Spain, which has a lower level of debt as a percentage of gross domestic product even than Germany, and Greece, which has given up a great deal of its fiscal sovereignty to lenders in exchange for assistance.
For Spain, a bailout is more than a matter of pride and sovereignty. “The experience of Ireland, Portugal and Greece is that it diminished their access to commercial markets,” said John Chambers, managing director and chairman of the sovereign rating committee at Standard & Poor’s. “Spain doesn’t want to go that route.”
The Spanish economy minister, Luis de Guindos, made a surprise visit to Brussels on Wednesday to meet with the European commissioner in charge of competition, Joaquín Almunia, a fellow Spaniard, followed by a trip to Paris to meet with Pierre Moscovici, France’s finance minister. That fueled speculation that Madrid was laying the groundwork to formally request help sooner rather than later.
Because Spain has already made many painful changes and spending cuts, officials in Brussels and Berlin are much more open to a bailout that mostly imposes conditions and oversight on the financial sector in Spain.
Mr. Moscovici said Wednesday that Europe stood ready to help Spain. “If Spain desires, we in the euro zone can mobilize rapidly,” Mr. Moscovici said at a news conference in Paris. But Mr. de Guindos said there were currently no plans to seek a bailout.
Yet, as recently as Tuesday, Spain’s budget minister told Spanish radio that the financial markets were closed to Spain. The mixed signals coming from Spanish officials seemed to reflect an odd balancing act — trying to reap the advantages of sounding alarmed, but not so desperate that they signal a willingness to let European officials dictate harsh terms and conditions.
Mr. de Guindos has spent this week shuttling between European capitals to secure some sort of rescue package for Spain’s troubled banks. The list starts with Bankia, which was nationalized in early May and needs $24 billion of additional funds after restating its accounts, to a 2011 loss of almost $3.75 billion rather than the $388 million profit it had reported in February. 
German officials have been privately pressing the Spaniards to take a bailout. On Tuesday, Volker Kauder, the head of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats in Parliament, said that Spain “has to seek a rescue.” But as long as Brussels and Berlin believe aid is necessary, Spain retains bargaining power — the chance that it self-destructs implicitly holds the rest of Europe hostage until they agree to terms.
One crucial issue is whether emergency lending would be made directly to Spanish banks. That is a line in the sand for German officials, who argue that under Europe’s hybrid structure, banks are the responsibility of their sovereign governments, not the European collective. 
But making emergency loans to the Spanish government to rescue its own banks, as European lenders did for Ireland, presents other problems, because it would increase government debt and impair Spain’s ability to sell bonds.
The German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung reported Wednesday that officials here were examining a possible compromise under which rescue funds were paid directly to Spain’s Fund for Orderly Bank Restructuring, known as FROB. 
Should Berlin agree to a rescue package with limited conditions, it would allow Mr. Rajoy to save face, after repeatedly pledging that Spain would not request a Greek-style bailout. 
The ultimate solution will hinge on Germany and how much its leaders are willing to bend. Berlin has an incentive to get the Spanish problem under control before Greek parliamentary elections on June 17, to help contain contagion in the event of instability after the vote, said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank. 
“I’m naïvely optimistic that it would be good to have the Spanish problem solved before the Greek election,” he said, “and my impression is the relevant policy makers think the same.”
LONDON — A few weeks ago, some friends had a baby daughter and I sent her a set of beautifully bound literary classics that I have loved reading over the years. Excuse the soppiness, but I hoped she would enjoy them as much as I had. Even so, no sooner had I ordered them than I wondered if I had blundered. 
Will Frankie (that’s the baby) read books at all? I’m not suggesting that she won’t be interested in their contents, but that she may prefer to digest them in a different form. She will undoubtedly do most of her reading on the pixelated screens of digital devices, but will she also feel inclined to do so by looking at ink printed on paper in the old-fashioned way? Possibly not. Is her gift already obsolete, or might those books seem as enticing to her generation of readers as they do to mine?
The same question applies to dozens of other endangered objects that are familiar and, in some cases, much loved aspects of our daily lives. It is easy to spot the likely casualties: anything whose function can be fulfilled efficiently — if not more so — by a cellphone, computer or another digital gizmo. Taking photos, checking the time, making phone calls, listening to music, totting up numbers and hundreds of other activities can now be executed by the same small device rather than with a camera, watch, telephone, calculator, or whatever. Many of those things will disappear, though some may survive, but which ones?
The short answer is that their fate will be determined by economics. Will enough people still feel the need or desire to buy a particular product to justify the continued cost of producing and distributing it, and of investing enough money in research and development to make it seem fresh and intriguing? But a decisive factor in determining whether it will be deemed necessary or desirable is design. Broadly speaking, the object will stand a fighting chance of survival if design imbues it with compelling qualities that cannot be replicated by its digital equivalent.
Those qualities will, of course, be different depending on the nature of the product and how it will be used. Let’s go back to the book. Much as I love old-fashioned printed books, I know that much of my affection for them is rooted in nostalgia and my memories of discovering their contents, and reinterpreting them on subsequent readings. Now that I also read digital books, I think equally fondly of them, but enjoy other aspects too.
Digital books don’t take up space on bookshelves, or gather dust there. They are quicker and easier to buy, because you don’t have to trudge to a book store or to wait for online orders to arrive. If you are reading them on an interactive device, you can check factual references or the meaning of obscure words instantly by going online. An electronic or digital reader like a Kindle or iPad is also lighter and less bulky to carry when you are traveling than a week’s worth of books. Finally, digital books score higher eco-points. There is no need to worry about how many trees were felled to produce them, if the ink is toxic, or how to dispose of them safely.
But digital books have yet to match printed ones when it comes to aesthetics. Even the most appealing of them, like the witty interactive children’s books designed by Moonbot Studios in Shreveport, Louisiana, look less beguiling than an elegantly bound printed book with lovely typography and imagery. The visual standards of digital books may well improve over time, but it is hard to imagine them ever being able to rival the sensual charm of the scent and feel of wonderful paper.
Not all printed books make the most of these advantages but the ingeniously designed ones do — sumptuous illustrated books, for example — which is why they may survive, whereas cheap paperbacks will perish. The same can be said of other imperiled objects with similar visual and sensual possibilities. Magazines fall into this category, as do watches. Do you need a watch to tell the time when you are rarely parted from your cell phone? Obviously not, but you may be tempted to buy one if it is finely crafted.
Such objects conform to the principles of what the American philosopher David Rothenberg calls “aesthetic selection” or “the survival of the beautiful.” His thinking is inspired by Charles Darwin’s 1871 book “The Descent of Man,” which explains why some animals have features whose purpose is aesthetic, rather than practical. Think of the peacock’s splendid tail, whose sole function is to seduce peahens, thereby propagating the species. On the same basis, even if an analogue product is less efficient than the digital version, it might be alluring enough to endure.
Another category of endangered products may be reprieved because design has given them a functional edge. Snapping pictures on a cell phone is fine for people like me, whose photographic technique (sadly) does not merit more advanced equipment, but anyone who is serious about photography will want to use a proper camera. Again, the more sophisticated that camera is, the better its odds will be. Similarly, why would anyone need a portable CD player when they can play music on their tablet or cellphone? But they may choose to use a music system at home, not only so that other people can listen, but because of its superior sound quality.
By contrast, the most vulnerable objects will be those that have nothing to counter their comparative inconvenience. Why bother with a pocket calculator when your phone does the job just as well? It would be like typing letters on a typewriter rather than a computer, or making calls from a kiosk not a cell phone. Let’s hope Frankie’s books don’t seem as antediluvian to her by the time she is old enough to read them. 
Abram Wilson, an acclaimed American jazz trumpeter and composer from New Orleans who helped lead a new generation of jazz artists in Britain, performing as a kind of cultural attaché from the jazz homeland, died on June 9 in London. He was 38.
He died several days after suspending a concert tour and checking into a hospital with stomach pains, his wife, Jennie Cashman, told London newspaper The Evening Standard. The cause was cancer, his wife said.
Mr. Wilson, who was raised in New Orleans and steeped in its hybrid musical traditions, was known for combining musical forms — melding quicksilver bebop with cloudbursts of hip-hop or passages of Stevie Wonder sung in his modest Sunday chorister’s voice. 
He wove story lines into some of his most ambitious music. The autobiographical 2007 concept album, “Ride! Ferris Wheel to the Modern Day Delta,” for example, was a kind of jazz opera about a trumpeter who tries to escape his jazz roots to become a hip-hop megastar, but who returns to the fold in the end.
While earning a clutch of British awards for his work, including a BBC Jazz Award for best new CD in 2007, Mr. Wilson demonstrated a commitment to his American jazz roots that often surfaced with almost missionary fervor, music critics said. Onstage, between numbers, he sometimes gave extemporaneous history lessons about the many musical currents that flowed into New Orleans jazz. 
In British towns where he was performing, he often brought his band to schools to talk about the history of the music, teach the basics of improvisation and give a taste of music many of them had never heard.
“I talk about the history — how people were brought from Africa to work in the cotton fields in America, and how they created the blues, and how that led to jazz,” he said in a British newspaper interview in 2008. “Jazz is so different. People need to be introduced to it.”
Jason Toynbee, a scholar of immigrant cultural influences at the Open University in London, described Mr. Wilson as a “hugely important” figure in the music scene known as Black British Jazz. “He approached jazz as an evolving music form, but also as an important historical cultural force,” he said in an interview last week. In a British melting pot of jazz musicians from Europe, the Caribbean and Africa, Mr. Toynbee added, Mr. Wilson saw his role at least in part as representing the American sensibility. 
Abram Wilson was born in Fort Smith, Ark., on Aug. 30, 1973, the oldest of six children of Willie and Doris Wilson. After his family moved to New Orleans, he was inspired to learn the trumpet by local musicians visiting his school. But he credited his parents with his decision to make music his profession. When he was a teenager, he said, he told his father he was pondering whether to become a lawyer, a doctor or an engineer. His father replied: “You know what? I’m going to take you to an audition.” 
Mr. Wilson attended the New Orleans Center for Creative Arts (Wynton Marsalis and Harry Connick Jr. also studied there), and graduated from Ohio Wesleyan University before earning a master’s degree in performance and composition at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester.
In New York he formed his own quartet and played with the trumpeter Roy Hargrove’s big band, the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra and the rhythm and blues singer Ruth Brown. After moving to London in 2002, Mr. Wilson made three albums for Dune Records, a British jazz label: “Jazz Warrior” (2004), “Ride! Ferris Wheel to the Modern Day Delta” (2007) and “Life Paintings” (2009). 
His survivors include his wife, his parents, four brothers, a sister and his grandmother, Oradell Barker.
He had recently finished and begun performing a jazz suite about the life of Philippa Schuyler, an American piano prodigy, born to a black father and white mother, who toured the country in the 1930s and ’40s, became disillusioned by American racism and died in 1967 on a charitable mission in Vietnam at age 35. 
In a review in April, John Fordham, a jazz critic for The Guardian, described the piece as a poignant portrait of an artist undone by the American racial divide. Mr. Wilson, he wrote, hoped to stage it as a play soon, adding, “It is a work in progress that will be fascinating to follow.”
UPSHOT
As the brand name might suggest, this hotel is pricey; rooms start at 425 Canadian dollars (about the same in U.S. dollars).
BASICS
The steel, stone and glass exterior of this $500 million, 65-story property was still getting finishing touches on the uppermost floors in late May, five months after it opened, but the building already cut a majestic figure in the Toronto skyline. The first of the Trump brand in Canada, the building — which is partly residential, with 118 condos on the upper floors — is actually owned by Talon International Inc., though the Trump Hotel Collection, led by Donald J. Trump and three of his children, operates the hotel. The lobby, full of rich champagne and black marble and dark wood with a massive Swarovski crystal sculpture on one wall, reflects the brand’s upscale intentions. Same goes for the service: A valet whisked my car away seconds after my partner and I stepped out of it, but neglected to mention that parking cost $50 for the night.
LOCATION
At the corner of Bay and Adelaide Streets, the Trump is in the heart of the financial district and close to the entertainment district, the vibrant Harbourfront Centre, Air Canada Centre (home to the Toronto Maple Leafs, hockey fans) and other diversions.
THE ROOM
Our room, No. 1609, was spacious, at 550 square feet. The comfy king-size bed, fitted with luxurious Bellino linens; a desk and large television; a kitchen nook with a coffee maker, sink and minibar; and a separate sitting area with an easy chair and footrest gave the substantial space the feel of a studio apartment.
THE BATHROOM
Lavish and roomy, with a long counter of dark wood with two sinks and a television embedded in the mirror. A deep soak tub was across from a separate stand-alone shower whose enormous shower head must have had about 100 nozzles; overall, the bathroom was practically a mini spa.
AMENITIES
The fitness center and pool on the 32nd floor are set to open this summer, and the 31st-floor restaurant, Stock, was closed the weekend that I visited (to refinish its floors). But the Suits lobby bar was open, offering a casual (though not cheap) option. The hotel has a 15,000-square-foot spa, offering massages from a 30-minute, “classic” massage (85 dollars) to an 80-minute “Euphoric Aroma Massage” (260 dollars). There are other amenities. As I was ready to doze off, I noticed a pillow menu and called down for an “airway” pillow, meant to reduce snoring. It was delivered promptly. But I cannot report on its effectiveness as it was on the floor when I woke up.
ROOM SERVICE
We ordered one “American breakfast” (28 dollars), thinking it might be big enough for two, but got a modest portion of scrambled eggs, potatoes and Canadian bacon. The food was fine if not special, though it did come quickly. The minibar deserves a mention for an item that stood out: Trump bullion. Small chocolate bars, shaped and wrapped to look like bars of gold and silver, cost 7 dollars for one small bar, a whopping 30 dollars for a bag containing several. Hey, how about a free one with turndown service instead?
BOTTOM LINE
During certain periods, rooms are 500 dollars or more a night, and the hotel, while certainly opulent, comfortable and centrally located, is unlikely to provide the fond memory that some worthwhile extravagances do. Find a deal, though, and it’s worth a visit.
Trump International Hotel & Tower Toronto, 325 Bay Street, Toronto; (855) 888-7867; trumptorontohotel.com. 
WASHINGTON — President Obama spent a rare full day in the Oval Office after the deadly bombings in Syria and Bulgaria on Wednesday, calling the leaders of Russia and Israel and conferring with his national security staff. Then he took off again Thursday to spend the rest of the week on the campaign trail. 
With the White House in campaign mode nearly 24/7, many of the administration’s biggest foreign policy initiatives have been pushed to the back burner until after the election. From Syria and Iran to nuclear arms reductions and peace talks with the Taliban, the administration is mostly playing for time, trying to avoid decisions that could land the president in trouble or be exploited by his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney.
While the administration’s watchword is stability, experts recall another political tradition: the October Surprise, a foreign policy event, either engineered or unexpected, that alters the closing weeks of the campaign. But the attacks in Syria and on the Israeli tourists in Bulgaria are a reminder of how little the White House can control world events.
Mr. Obama himself acknowledged in March how the election had narrowed his options when he told Dmitri A. Medvedev, then Russia’s president — in a private exchange picked up by an open microphone — that he would have more flexibility after November to deal with Russian concerns over the American missile defense system.
The attempt to subordinate foreign policy to domestic politics is a quadrennial phenomenon, but “the lengthening of the political season, combined with the president’s understandable desire to be re-elected, has meant a longer distraction than in previous elections,” said Martin S. Indyk, director of foreign policy at the Brookings Institution.
The White House’s policy, Mr. Indyk said, can be summed up as “no wars, no engagement in risky business abroad that can cost votes with key constituencies at home, no presidential involvement unless there’s an urgent requirement.”
Washington’s intense polarization has compounded the problem by depriving Mr. Obama of a bipartisan constituency in Congress for any foreign policy undertaking, whether it is nuclear arms reduction or plotting an exit strategy from Afghanistan.
The administration insists that its foreign policy is driven by national security considerations, not politics. Senior officials, including Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, are still traveling widely in Asia and the Middle East. But officials acknowledge that the level of presidential engagement is different, with fewer visits by foreign heads of state and fewer overseas trips by Mr. Obama.
“The president is, by definition, spending more time on the election,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser, who worked on the 2008 campaign. “But sometimes people paint with too broad a brush.”
The casualties of the calendar include a presidential decision on how deeply to cut the stockpile of strategic nuclear warheads, even below the levels in the New Start treaty with Russia. The administration has all but completed a review of options for Mr. Obama’s consideration, officials said, but the announcement has been delayed for months.
The president, whose ultimate goal is to eliminate all nuclear weapons, can choose among three options, officials said: a reduction to 1,550 warheads, as stipulated in New Start; a middle ground of about 1,000 warheads, which they describe as the leading candidate; and a radical reduction to 300 to 400 warheads.
But leading Republicans, including Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, said they believed that Mr. Obama had already given Moscow too much sway over American nuclear weapons and missile defense policy. The White House, officials said, is wary of announcing further cuts and giving Mr. Romney or other Republicans a classic red-meat issue.
A similar dynamic is at play with the administration’s off-again-on-again peace talks with the Taliban in Afghanistan. Officials say those talks are off for the moment, largely because of a lack of progress on a prisoner swap, which in turn can be traced in part to reluctance on the American side, because of election-year politics.
Republican lawmakers denounced the prospect of releasing five Taliban fighters, even in return for the release of Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl, the only American soldier known to be held by the insurgents. And Mr. Romney is likely to seize the issue if it resurfaces, having declared during the Republican primaries that “the right course for America is not to negotiate with the Taliban while the Taliban are killing our soldiers.”
State Department officials insist that they remain committed to reaching a broad settlement with the Taliban, and that the talks have been snake-bitten by a number of factors unrelated to American politics. But people who have been in touch with the insurgents’ negotiators say the Taliban believe the United States has failed to deliver on its promises.
The negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program are equally complex. Critics say the White House is determined to string out the negotiations over months to push off any confrontation with Tehran until after Election Day. But Israeli officials have threatened to carry out a pre-emptive airstrike on Iran’s nuclear installations if they conclude Iran is on the verge of making its uranium enrichment facilities impregnable to attack.
Administration officials said the pace of the negotiations was dictated by factors that had nothing to do with the election, chiefly giving sanctions against Iran’s oil industry time to bite enough to push the Iranians into serious negotiations. As one senior official said, “We wouldn’t want Israel to attack Iran even if there wasn’t an election.”
Israel and Iran both take the election into account in their own decisions. Tehran’s unwillingness to make concessions so far, some analysts argue, reflects its conviction that the United States will not precipitate a showdown as long as Mr. Obama’s re-election hangs in the balance.
Israel’s role is even more delicate, largely because of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s threat of military action against Iran, which would have a drastic effect on the oil market and could potentially upend the election.
Mr. Romney, who has accused Mr. Obama of not adequately backing Israel, plans to visit Jerusalem at the end of the month. The White House is sending a stream of officials there, including Mrs. Clinton and Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta — in effect, sandwiching Mr. Romney. Their message is that the Israelis can hold off on a strike because the United States will not allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon. 
In the fall, some foreign policy experts said, the tone may be different. “If, in October, the president is on the ropes, and he can score a quick win by doing something with Israel or Iran, he’s going to do it,” said David J. Rothkopf, chief executive and editor at large of the Foreign Policy Group.
Chris Botti has a trumpet sound that suggests the softer side of luminosity, the realm of sunsets and half-moons and low-wattage incandescence. Mellow and pearly, it emits an unabashed beauty of the sort that you could carefully build a career around — as Mr. Botti has, with extravagant success. But one of the perils of beauty is inertia, and Mr. Botti isn’t about to fall into that trap, as he seemed almost too keen to prove at the Beacon Theater on Tuesday night, in a punchy and ultimately perplexing show. 
There’s an underlying dichotomy in Mr. Botti’s work, which functions both on the level of flickering intimacy and thundering grandiosity. He’s adept at exuding human warmth on a sweeping scale, which explains his collaborative history with Andrea Bocelli and Josh Groban, and sheds light on his affiliation with Sting. Still, it’s striking how differently Mr. Botti conceives of his roles on record and onstage. To stick with the lighting analogy, his studio output is to his live show what a votive candle is to a fireworks display.
What that means in practical terms is that Mr. Botti engineers wave upon wave of glittery combustion, sometimes packing several boomlets into a single song. He has a crew suited to this strategy, starting with the pianist Geoffrey Keezer and the guitarist Leonardo Amuedo, who bring artistry as well as flash to the equation. 
Mr. Keezer’s precisely rhapsodic solo on “Flamenco Sketches,” the Miles Davis-Bill Evans ballad, was the concert’s most audacious feat of musicianship; Mr. Amuedo’s fingerpicked filigree on “You Are Not Alone,” the Michael Jackson-R. Kelly hit, was one of its most subtle. Mr. Botti took full advantage of both accompanists, basking in their expertise and squaring it against his own.
For much of the concert, the violinist Caroline Campbell provided him with a sensuous melodic foil, most vividly on “Emmanuel,” a solicitous theme by Michel Colombier. And there was a sturdy dynamism in the rhythm section, thanks to the drummer Billy Kilson and the bassist Tim Lefebvre. 
Perhaps it’s all that firepower that drives Mr. Botti to a kind of jam session exhibitionism, as when he led “When I Fall in Love” from simmering ballad territory into a hard-boppish shuffle, or refashioned Burt Bacharach’s “The Look of Love” as a bolt of steroidal fusion. Oddly, given the pristine melodic thrust of Mr. Botti’s albums — including, and especially, “Impressions” (Columbia), released this spring — he was cavalier with much of his material here, restless nearly to the point of incoherence. 
This was made all the more evident by the straining of his regular vocal accomplice, Lisa Fischer, who had the unenviable task of filling in for both Sting (“La Belle Dame Sans Regrets”) and Mr. Bocelli (“Italia”), singing in awkward areas of her range. Mr. Botti took pains to praise Ms. Fischer’s adaptability; what he could have done was level the playing field with an arrangement of her 1991 R&B hit, “How Can I Ease the Pain.” 
Instead the show barreled on to its mildly surreal conclusion: Mr. Botti announced that the New York Knicks legend Earl Monroe was in the audience, and invited him onstage to play the drums. (This was for Mr. Kilson, whose middle name is Earl, in tribute.) Mr. Monroe had apparently never played drums before. No matter: There he was hammering at a cymbal during a pop-opera version of Puccini’s “Nessun Dorma.” 
It was right on the border of kitsch, and Mr. Botti must have known that he needed a coda. So the concert officially ended with a version of “My Funny Valentine,” elegant and concise, played in duo with Mr. Keezer: a slow drift of sparks in the wake of a pompous bombardment.
Donald Trump, the archvillain of Anthony Baxter’s documentary polemic, “You’ve Been Trumped,” is a man many people love to hate. In this unabashedly hostile portrait of a billionaire developer in action as he embarks on a grandiose new project in Scotland, Mr. Trump comes across as an insensitive, lying bully who will do whatever it takes to realize his dream of creating what he promises will be the world’s greatest golf resort.
The $1.5 billion project involves building two 18-hole golf courses (the first one opened last month), a 450-bedroom luxury hotel, and a complex of apartments and golf villas on the North Sea coast. Environmental protection was pushed aside for economic development, and the government supported the project, which Mr. Trump declared would bring 6,000 jobs to the area.
Like Michael Moore in “Roger and Me,” Mr. Baxter is a persistent gnat who hovers around Mr. Trump and his entourage, camera in hand, and refuses to be brushed off. At one point in the film he is arrested and charged with breach of the peace. But whereas Mr. Moore was the star of his own film, Mr. Baxter, who was born in eastern Scotland not far from the development area, maintains a low profile in a documentary that has no narrator.
There is also a big difference between Roger Smith, the General Motors chief executive officer whom Mr. Moore was never able to interview in his film, and the publicity-loving Mr. Trump, who broadcast his ambitions on late-night television and on the Golf Channel. “You’ve Been Trumped” lards in excerpts from Bill Forsyth’s 1983 fillm, “Local Hero,” in which a Texas oil baron wants to build a refinery in a fictional Scottish coastal town.
Once construction begins on the 1,400-acre Menie Estate, which Mr. Trump bought in 2005, the lives of the farmers and fishermen in nearby Balmedie, a town of 3,000, are disrupted.
The arrival of Mr. Trump and his overbearing ways is an affront to many residents, especially Michael Forbes, a farmer who refuses to sell his property, which Mr. Trump describes as a slum and a pigsty. The film delves into the problems encountered by Mr. Forbes and neighbors who band together to protest the development. Mr. Forbes loses his electricity and water. Enormous piles of dirt and sand are dumped near cottages, blocking their ocean views, and homeowners are taken to court in petty boundary disputes. At one point the use of “compulsory purchase orders,” the Scottish equivalent of eminent domain, to force them to sell, is threatened.
After the heavy machinery arrives and begins leveling the ground, the police and security guards block Mr. Baxter as he attempts to enter the area. He gives cameras to two of the villagers to film the day-by-day destruction of the dunes and the surrounding grassland.
What they record is the transformation of part of an area that one environmentalist describes as a fragile and irreplaceable “mosaic of habitats” into a muddy building site. Mr. Trump publicly insists that he has the approval of most environmental groups. There are moments when the film’s concern for the environment tilts toward sentimentality and even hysteria.
Most galling to Mr. Baxter is Mr. Trump’s receipt of an honorary degree in business administration from Robert Gordon University in nearby Aberdeen. It prompts a protest from a previous honoree, the Scottish environmentalist David Kennedy, who ostentatiously returns his degree.
“You’ve Been Trumped” ends indecisively. Last year Mr. Trump said he would not construct the promised hotel unless plans were scrapped to build an offshore wind farm that he said would destroy the ocean view. So far both sides of this David and Goliath battle are still standing.
Sandy Koufax’s sports odyssey took him from a muscular, leaping center for the Lafayette High School basketball team in Brooklyn to left-handed bonus baby for the Brooklyn Dodgers to the Hall of Fame as one of the most dynamic pitchers in baseball history. 
His path from basketball to baseball was the reverse of Brooklyn’s better known but tortured major league history: losing the Dodgers in 1957 and now gaining the Nets, whose first season in the borough is to start Nov. 1. 
For more than five decades, Koufax has been a symbol of Brooklyn’s lost sports history. It turns out he was something more — a heck of a basketball player whose exploits way back when take on new meaning with the Nets’ arrival.
When the 6-foot 2-inch Koufax graduated from Lafayette High School in 1953, his yearbook declared that he “has been scouted and will most likely be a professional basketball player.” The N.B.A. was a backwater in the mid-1950s, but Koufax’s friend, the talk-show host Larry King, class of ’51 and team manager from an earlier Lafayette class, said that Koufax aspired to play for the Knicks.
Yes, Koufax also played baseball at the time, manning first base for the school team, but he was not much of a hitter. And no one had any premonition that he would become the pitcher that he did. 
Instead, it was mostly basketball. In a Lafayette team photograph, Koufax, No. 16, his biceps rippling, stands smiling beside his pal Fred Wilpon, No. 5, the future owner of the Mets and star pitcher on the baseball team. The Frenchies at the time were nearly all Jewish: Abramowitz, Weiss, Levine, Stolzenberg, Horwitz, Lichtman, Lichtenstein. And Koufax, whose yearbook entry featured these rather modest goals: “To be successful and make my family proud of me.”
Koufax and his friends played in the school gymnasium, with protective padding on the walls that were just a few feet behind the baskets; in Bensonhurst at the nearby Jewish Community House, “the J”; or in schoolyards. Jerry Doren, one of the Frenchies, said, “You practically slept with the basketball.” He paused, then added, “They were the best years of my life.”
Joel Comiteau, whose surname was originally Comito, said: “It was like Princeton basketball. Nice teamwork, give-and-gos and back doors.”
Lafayette had a decent team in the early 1950s. It competed against Brooklyn public high schools like Lincoln, Madison, Jefferson, New Utrecht and Erasmus. Koufax, now 76, was not the best high school basketball player in Brooklyn at the time, but he set himself apart on his team as its star. And as he and his teammates head toward 80, and the Nets’ era in Brooklyn nears, they relish talking about him.
“Sandy was an incredible athlete,” said Burt Abramowitz, a real estate broker in Maryland. “When he was 14, he had these muscles. He didn’t lift weights. No one did back then. We lifted radiators. And he could jump like a kangaroo. I’d play on the second team and we’d guard each other, and he said, ‘If I could shoot like you, I’d be in the N.B.A.’ I’d say: ‘Give me your legs, I’d start in the N.B.A.’ ”
Abramowitz added: “We used to say he was the white Sihugo Green,” who years before had been an African-American star at Boys High School in Brooklyn.
“We called him the Jewish Li’l Abner,” said another teammate, Martin Stolzenberg. 
Asher Jagoda, who later changed his surname to Dann when he became an actor, said: “He could leap, boy, and you know the size of his hands. He’s the only one who could hold the ball in one hand.”
Doren remembered that Koufax “looked like a David even when he wasn’t working out.”
More prosaically, Comiteau said: “He was a regular guy. A mensch. Always a mensch.”
In February 1953, a Koufax legend was born, not one as grand as his perfect game at Dodger Stadium in 1965 against the Chicago Cubs but one that came alive inside Lafayette High School on a winter’s night when a group of Knicks, including Harry Gallatin, staged a clinic at the school, in the Bath Beach section of Brooklyn. Jane Leavy, in her book “Sandy Koufax: A Lefty’s Legacy,” described a scene that featured a packed gym and Lafayette’s cheerleaders “in full pompomed confection.” 
Comiteau said, “That was one of the highlights of my life.”
Sometime that night, during drills or the scrimmage — depending on who is telling the story — the 6-6 Gallatin, nicknamed the Horse, tried to dunk. Twice, he failed. 
“Well, I needed a step stool to dunk the ball,” Gallatin said by telephone from Edwardsville, Ill. “That wasn’t in my repertory.” According to Leavy, Lafayette Coach Frank Rabinowitz, apparently eager to show off the 17-year-old Koufax, gestured to him to demonstrate just how a dunk was done.
Koufax threw it down once, left-handed; Rabinowitz asked for an encore. Koufax obliged.
“He surprised the heck out of me, and I said, ‘Who is this kid?’ ” Gallatin said. “I thought the kid had some special skills. He had real big hands, but he had stumps for legs, which I think is probably one of the reasons he pitched so well.”
Abramowitz said that during the scrimmage another Knick, maybe Nat (Sweetwater) Clifton, teased Gallatin that Koufax was outrebounding him during the scrimmage and showing him up. 
The New York Post, which covered the clinic, reported that Gallatin was so impressed by Koufax that he told Rabinowitz, “We’ll be coming back for this kid some day.” Gallatin never saw Koufax again but he said, “I read that he called me his favorite player.”
Koufax ended up going to the University of Cincinnati, where he walked on to the basketball team and got a partial scholarship, Leavy wrote. Back home in Brooklyn on Christmas break, Koufax surprised Stolzenberg when he told him that baseball was now his focus. (Koufax was 3-1, with a 2.81 earned run average, for the Bearcats in 1954.) 
“I saw him on 86th Street in Bensonhurst,” Stolzenberg said, “and I asked him, ‘How are you doing at school, Sandy?’ and he said, ‘I’ve been playing fall baseball, and Cincinnati, the Dodgers and Pittsburgh are interested in me.’ I nodded my head, said uh-huh, and I went around the neighborhood saying, ‘Sandy is out of his mind; he thinks he’s going to be a baseball player.’ ”
Through the years, some of his high school teammates have stayed in touch with him, although a recent reunion in Delray Beach, Fla., went on without him, Comiteau said. 
“Guys hugging, kissing, crying,” he added. 
Meanwhile, his old teammates still summon the memories of the moments after high school when Koufax was present — at restaurants, Final Fours, a grandson’s soccer game or a long-ago Dodgers game. Sid Young recalled how Koufax occasionally joined pickup basketball games in the Los Angeles area in the late 1960s with some Lafayette teammates who had gone west like the Dodgers. But autograph-seekers turned the gatherings into spectacles.
Young, whose family name was Yallowitz, said, “He held my son at birth in his gigantic hands.” Young, one of Koufax’s closest friends, added: “He stayed at my house when he got divorced.” 
Abramowitz’s daughter twice contacted Koufax to ask him to call her father on his 65th and 75th birthdays. Abramowitz said, “Last year, he says, ‘Happy birthday, Big Job,’ and then, ‘Would you get your daughter off my back?’ ” 
“I remember every time and place I met or spoke with him,” Abramowitz added.
Stolzenberg, who was working in Pittsburgh in the 1960s when the Dodgers and Koufax played the Pirates, said that during a conversation there Koufax asked him: “ ‘Did you get married? Did you marry a Jewish girl?’ ”
Koufax did not respond to requests for an interview for this article, but it is hard to imagine that he is not tickled by the idea that the first major league franchise to return to Brooklyn plays basketball, his original sports passion. 
Young and King are trying to establish a more tangible connection between the Lafayette High School of old and the Nets. The two are stockholders in the Original Brooklyn Water Bagel Co. chain and partners in an outlet in Beverly Hills, Calif., and have been negotiating to have a store at the Nets’ new home, Barclays Center. 
What better than a bagel to help things come full circle?
“When we have breakfast,” Young said, “Larry and I watch ESPN, and they keep saying, ‘Brooklyn Nets.’ We say: ‘Brooklyn Nets? It sounds good. We like it.’ The Brooklyn never goes out of us.”
THE economic recovery from the 2007-9 recession has been a slow one in the United States, prompting much grumbling. 
But at least the recovery is continuing. Figures released this week showed that many European countries have entered new recessions, and that the slowdown is spreading from the peripheral countries of the euro zone to others. Belgium and the Netherlands are among the nations that reported their economies were smaller in this year’s second quarter than they were a year earlier. In Finland, which like the Netherlands had been among the loudest in calling for austerity in the peripheral countries, the economy shrank in the quarter.
The French economy is stagnating, with no growth for nine months, and the German recovery is losing vigor. It was up a paltry 1 percent over the most recent four quarters.
In that company, the disappointing 2.2 percent growth in the United States over the same period seems almost vigorous.
The accompanying charts show the change in gross domestic product since the world economy bottomed in the second quarter of 2009. Germany leads the way among the countries shown, with a gain of 8.9 percent. The euro zone as a whole is up just 3.5 percent over those three years, and its G.D.P. has declined over the last year.
But even those modest figures may overstate the strength of the economies, at least as seen by those who live in them. As the name suggests, G.D.P. figures reflect a country’s production, including exports. Another statistic, called domestic demand in Europe and gross domestic purchases in the United States, reflects what is bought in a country. Throughout Europe, that figure has risen less than the G.D.P. figures.
In the United States, on the other hand, domestic purchases in the second quarter were 7.4 percent larger than they were three years earlier, while G.D.P. was up 6.7 percent. 
Most European countries have yet to estimate domestic demand for the second quarter. In the euro zone as a whole, the first-quarter figure was only 0.9 percent higher than it had been at the bottom. All of that gain reflected German buying; domestic demand in the rest of the zone is now lower than it was at the 2009 low.
The charts show figures for the four largest economies in the euro zone — Germany, France, Italy and Spain — as well as for the euro zone itself. They also show the three largest non-euro developed economies — the United States, Britain and Japan.
Those relative performances are also shown by stock prices in the various countries. The MSCI indexes, developed by Morgan Stanley Capital International and reflecting performance in dollars, show that the United States market was up by nearly two-thirds in mid-August from its level at the end of June 2009, assuming reinvestment of dividends. Despite recent weakness in the British economy, its stock market has risen nearly 50 percent. 
By contrast, the German market was up about a quarter and French stocks gained about 13 percent. The Japanese market rose less than 5 percent. Investors in Italian and Spanish stocks lost money over the period. 
The people who bought tickets for the men’s quarterfinals session at the United States Open on Thursday afternoon were not rewarded with a marquee matchup when Janko Tipsarevic of Serbia and David Ferrer of Spain fell into their laps, but they were rewarded with perhaps the best match of the tournament.
By the fifth-set tiebreaker, the crowd was on its feet cheering both players as Ferrer dug out a 6-3, 6-7 (5), 2-6, 6-3, 7-6 (4) victory in a marathon full of gritty play and gutsy shots that sent Ferrer to a hard-earned spot in the semifinals.
At the end of 4 hours 31 minutes, when Tipsarevic sent his final shot into the net, Ferrer reveled in the kind of victory he is known for: long and grueling and full of retrieved shots only he could reach.
“I don’t have words,” Ferrer said after the match. “I am really happy. It was a really emotional match. Now I don’t have words to explain what happen. Janko is a really amazing player. He deserve also to win today.”
Ferrer, the No. 4 seed, advanced to play the winner of the Thursday night quarterfinal between Novak Djokovic and Juan Martín del Potro. It will be Ferrer’s second appearance in the Open semifinals, and his fourth at a major tournament. He has never made it to a Grand Slam final. 
Whatever happens, he gave Open fans a match to remember. Down two sets to one and then down a break, 1-4, in the final set, Ferrer upheld his reputation as a player who never gives up on a match or a shot.
“I try always to fight a lot,” he said. “I try to be focused every point.”
While Ferrer put on a display of incredible stamina, Tipsarevic, the No. 8 seed, also refused to buckle. He had given up his service-break advantage in the fifth set and appeared to be ailing when he called for a trainer while facing two break points. But he returned to the court, erased both break points and hung in for the tiebreaker.
There, Ferrer had more energy left and Tipsarevic’s chances were lost in errors sent wide and into the net.
Ferrer and Tipsarevic were playing for only the fourth time in their careers and for the first time since they met in the first round of the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. Tipsarevic won that meeting, after having lost their first two matches in straight sets to Ferrer. None hinted at the epic match they would wage here.
Tipsarevic took the early edge, breaking Ferrer’s serve in the opening game, before Ferrer got into any rhythm. From there, the momentum swung quickly to Ferrer’s favor. Suddenly, he was serving at a very high level and Tipsarevic was scrambling to stay in points. Ferrer not only got the break back, he grabbed another and won the first set, 6-3.
The second set turned into a slugfest, with Ferrer using his trademark speed to catch up to nearly everything and Tipsarevic slugging even harder for the lines to get shots past him. Tipsarevic won the tiebreaker, 7-5, after playing some gutsy points, including a winner he put just inside the baseline after tracking down an almost unreachable shot by Ferrer.
Tipsarevic played some incredible shots in the pivotal game of the third set, to break Ferrer’s serve and take a 3-2 lead. After an 18-shot rally that Tipsarevic won with a scrambling forehand winner at deuce, he won break point on an amazing exchange at the net after Ferrer unwisely tried a drop shot that didn’t drop enough. Ferrer did not win another game in the set.
But it was Ferrer who got the pivotal break in the fourth set, digging out key points in a multiple-deuce game on Tipsarevic’s serve at 4-3. Ferrer served out the set to send them to a fifth set.
At that point, the match had already stretched to three hours six minutes.
Tipsarevic seemingly took control of the fifth set with an early break of serve. He had a 4-1 lead, but the momentum swung away from him in the next game when he went sprawling to the court after slipping. Tipsarevic shook it off after a short delay, but seemed to be laboring in the next game, and Ferrer grabbed the break of serve back. Facing two break points when the set was tied, 4-4, Tipsarevic doubled over on court and called for an injury timeout.
He saved both break points, the first one by cutting off a shot for a volley winner, and then unfurled three big serves to salvage the game.
In the tiebreaker, Ferrer was clearly stronger. He had enough energy left to throw his arms in the air in celebration before giving Tipsarevic a long hug for his efforts.
Other than their quarterfinal, few matches were scheduled during the day session. One was the mixed doubles final, which was played at noon on Arthur Ashe Stadium to start the day. It featured an unlikely championship pair, of Brazil and Ekaterina Makarova of Russia, defeating Kveta Peschke of the Czech Republic and Marcin Matkowski of Poland.
The Soares-Makarova pairing was unusual because they teamed together in the final moments before the deadline to sign in. At that time Soares realized his usual doubles partner did not have a high enough ranking to qualify. Soares said his coach ran across the grounds to inquire about Makarova’s willingness to team up.
They opened the tournament by beating the second-ranked team of Mike Bryan and Lisa Raymond of the United States in the first round. 
“After the first match we played really good, and we talked to each other and said if we keep playing like this, for sure we’re going to have a chance to win the title,” Soares said. “That’s what happened.”
Mike and Bob Bryan won their men’s doubles semifinal, 6-3, 6-4, over Aisam-Ul-Haq Quereshi of Pakistan and Jean-Julien Rojer of the Netherlands. The Bryans will play for their fourth Open title and 12th Grand Slam championship against Leander Paes of India and Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic, who won their semifinal when Marcel Granollers and Marc López of Spain retired in the first set. 
CINCINNATI — In a vivid display of the powers of incumbency, President Obama on Monday filed a broad new trade case against China at the World Trade Organization, announcing the action in this industrial battleground where Mitt Romney has pressed his argument that the president has not done enough to protect American workers.
Administration officials said that the W.T.O. case, which charges China with unfairly subsidizing exports of cars and auto parts, was months in the making. But the timing, eight weeks before the election and days after Mr. Romney had renewed his attacks on Mr. Obama for his trade policy toward China, gives it potent political resonance.
On a day in which security and trade policy were inextricably mixed with the presidential campaign, the Chinese government, hours after word of the American action began circulating in Beijing, announced that it was filing its own W.T.O. case, alleging unfairness in how the United States calculates the penalty tariffs in anti-subsidy cases. 
The timing appeared to be coincidental. But an announcement earlier in the day that the United States and Japan had reached a major agreement to deploy a second advanced missile-defense radar on Japanese territory prompted immediate criticism in China. 
Speaking to supporters in a state heavily dependent on the auto industry, Mr. Obama drew an explicit link between China’s trade policies and the economic travails of voters in this closely contested region. By giving its exporters $1 billion in illegal subsidies from 2009 to 2011, the administration said, China is hurting American manufacturers and encouraging companies to move their production to China.
“These are subsidies that directly harm working men and women on the assembly lines in Ohio and Michigan and across the Midwest,” Mr. Obama said at rally in a hillside park here. “It’s not right; it’s against the rules, and we will not let it stand.”
After a week of anti-American violence in the Middle East that threw Mr. Romney off stride and left Mr. Obama potentially vulnerable to criticism, the focus on China put the candidates back on familiar ground, with a reliably populist theme that allowed each to try out new lines showcasing their toughness and caricaturing the fecklessness of the other.
Mr. Romney has long said he would be tougher on China than Mr. Obama. He responded on Monday to the W.T.O. action by declaring that Mr. Obama had done “too little, too late” to curb China’s unfair trade practices. The latest case, he said, was little more than a political stunt, failing to compensate for the Obama administration’s refusal to take other actions, like labeling China a currency manipulator.
“The president may think that announcing new trade lawsuits less than two months from the election will distract from his record,” Mr. Romney said in Los Angeles. “But American businesses and workers struggling on an uneven playing field know better.”
Mr. Obama repeated his charge that it was Mr. Romney who had sent jobs to China through his zealous practice of “outsourcing” at Bain Capital. Mr. Romney, he said, also profited from investments in Chinese companies. “Ohio,” the president declared, “you can’t stand up to China when all you’ve done is send them our jobs.”
The new trade case is further evidence of how Mr. Obama, after early attempts at accommodation with Beijing, has stiffened his approach to China. It was the ninth trade action that the administration has brought against China, with the highest profile ones coming this year.
The administration’s timing, however, hardly appeared accidental. It was the second China trade action announced by Mr. Obama on the eve of a campaign visit to Ohio, where the auto-parts industry employs 52,400 people. Last July, just before he flew to Toledo, home of a Jeep Wrangler factory, the White House filed a complaint against Beijing for levying $3.3 billion of duties on American automobiles.
“It’s not as if because we’re in the midst of an election that we should wait until next year to take these steps on behalf of American workers,” Joshua Earnest, the deputy press secretary, told reporters on Air Force One.
The United States trade representative, Ron Kirk, said his staff had been investigating China’s auto subsidies for “quite a while,” adding in a conference call, “We have no knowledge of the president’s travel schedule.” He said the United States would vigorously defend itself from the Chinese case on antitariff penalties. 
The Obama and Romney campaigns are amplifying their remarks in tit-for-tat political advertising that focuses on China — Mr. Romney’s accusing the president of repeatedly passing up chances to get tough on Beijing; Mr. Obama’s asking incredulously, “Mitt Romney tough on China?” and reciting the charges of outsourcing and investments in Chinese companies.
Bashing China is a tried-and-true campaign strategy for both parties, particularly in swing states like Ohio, where a heavy loss of manufacturing jobs has coincided with a surge of Chinese-made auto parts into the United States.
But for Mr. Obama it is a notable shift from 2008, when he modulated any anti-China talk, in part because jobs were not as central an issue then and in part because his foreign-policy advisers warned him that if he made China a punching bag, he would spend his first year as president repairing the damage.
Once in office, however, aides said Mr. Obama became frustrated by what he views as China’s refusal to play by the rules. In the fall of 2009, he imposed a tariff on China for dumping tires into the American market. This was the most conspicuous of a stream of trade actions, covering goods from a specific category of flat-rolled steel to chicken broilers.
“We’ve brought more trade cases against China in one term than the previous administration did in two — and every case we’ve brought that’s been decided, we won,” Mr. Obama said, noting that Mr. Romney warned that the tire case would be bad for American workers. The president claimed it created more than 1,000 jobs. 
Mr. Romney is emphasizing another type of trade enforcement in which he says Mr. Obama is lacking: labeling China a currency manipulator for keeping its currency artificially undervalued. In his campaign ad, a narrator says: “Seven times Obama could have stopped China’s cheating. Seven times he refused.” 
The Treasury Department has consistently declined to designate China for manipulation. Senior officials argue that to do so would only make matters worse by provoking a nationalist backlash that could lead the Chinese authorities to tighten their controls again. They note that after persistent pressure by American officials, China began relaxing the renminbi in 2010, and it has risen modestly against the dollar.
Mr. Romney, however, has declared he would label China a manipulator on his first day in office — a threat that rattles free-trade proponents. Mr. Romney also says he would be tougher than Mr. Obama on issues like intellectual property rights.
“If I had known that all it took to get him to take action was to run an ad citing his inaction on China’s cheating, I would have run one a long time ago,” Mr. Romney said to the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.
Separation of church and state should be a cherished no-brainer under the Constitution, but that never seems so in an election year when some clergyman or other cannot resist the temptation to speak out as a political boss. 
The good news on Manhattan’s Upper East Side is that when Rev. John Farren used the parish bulletin to disseminate a proxy endorsement of Mitt Romney by six former ambassadors to the Vatican, more than 20,000 people promptly objected in a petition sent downtown to Cardinal Timothy Dolan. 
Father Farren used the bulletin to parishioners at the Church of St. Catherine of Siena to quote at length from a letter by the ambassadors urging a “full-hearted effort” to elect Mr. Romney as president because of his opposition to abortion, same-sex marriage and aspects of federal contraception coverage church leaders find objectionable. 
This is plainly against the tax law that allows the church a generous exemption for staying out of politics, even specifying that statements by others are not allowed. Father Farren had tried a carom shot in his pamphleteering, declaring in the bulletin, “I am aware that I and no church authority may endorse candidates for political office.” Nice try, but as The Times columnist Jim Dwyer wrote: “You could practically see him winking.” Cardinal Dolan’s office confirmed the plain law of the land, that “our churches should not endorse candidates.” And a subsequent church bulletin apologized that Father Farren’s boost of the Romney candidacy was “an unfortunate error in judgment.” The violation of the separation of church and state and the public’s firm response present a timely reminder that the voting booth must be kept as sacrosanct as the pulpit. 
LONDON — It was bound to happen. Forget the art show, have fun at the art spectacle, the latest game in town.
At the Royal Academy exhibition put together by David Ekserdjian under the title “Bronze,” the tone is set right at the beginning. In the spacious octagonal entrance hall, the mise en scène is dramatic. A fourth-century B.C. Greek statue perched on a supporting rod seemingly floats in mid-air. The bronze man, head tilted sideways, chest thrust forward, the stumps of its broken off arms pathetically spread out, kicks back with its left leg. This is an acrobat rather than a dancer, plunged in semi-obscurity for greater effect. The detail of the surface cannot be made out. What matters is the instant impression. No attention effort is required.
As visitors step into the first of several long exhibition rooms, this is made abundantly clear.
The row of five characters that greets them at left is droll. Enjoy the art adventure ground spread over centuries and do not seek conceptual or aesthetic consistency. There is none.
“The Age of Bronze,” an 1877 cast by Rodin stands near a seated 15th-century Tibetan figure designated by its Sanskrit name, Mahasidda Virupa. Rodin’s life-size man in the nude seems to be banging on his head, as if ashamed to have forgotten to put on clothes while the Buddhist sage, casting aside all wisdom, grimaces fiercely and gesticulates in irate disapproval. Very witty. And it gets better as you move along the row.
Item No. Three in the odd line-up is Willem de Kooning’s “Clam Digger” of 1972. The muscular creature could be stepping out of a horror movie. Clumps of dripping clay — thankfully solidly cast in bronze — are piled up to form a body. It could dissolve at any moment, carrying you away into a nether world of black mud. Or so you briefly imagine. 
Perhaps, the De Kooning is there to warn visitors that they are entering a world where the aesthetic approach of contemporary art prevails. Order is banned, logic not desired. The small head of a woman cast at Ife, Nigeria, possibly in the 14th century, comes next and the row ends with a larger than life Saint Stephen cast by Lorenzo Ghiberti around 1427-1428.
Not many may take in the beauty of the small head from Ife, overshadowed as it is by the enormous De Kooning on its left and Ghiberti’s saint to the right. Not to worry — the comical effect is what matters and it is fully achieved. The martyr’s tearful stare, directed at the sky, could be lamenting the precedence given to entertainment over contemplation.
The happy few trained to zero in on masterpieces no matter what surroundings, as experienced collectors do in the auction market, will be thrilled by the assemblage of unforgettable works from far flung places and may shrug off the cacophony resulting from its random assemblages.
Those digging for enlightenment into the hefty exhibition volume edited by Mr. Ekserdjian will be surprised to discover that there, by contrast, an orderly presentation by geographical area gives the show an entirely different complexion. It was evidently conceived by Mr. Ekserdjian as an artistic journey through the world’s great cultures that used bronze.
The renowned Renaissance scholar was able, in particular, thanks to his contacts in the international museum arena, to gather a stunning array of West European sculpture from the earliest times to the Baroque Age.
Those acquainted with the ways of museum administrations will admire Mr. Ekserdjian’s ability to persuade the Soprintendenze per i Beni Archeologica della Toscana, ultimately in charge of the magnificent Museum Archeologico Nazionale in Florence, to let go of the most famous Etruscan bronze in the world. The Chimera of Arezzo caused a sensation when it was discovered in 1553. Entrusted for restoration to the most celebrated European goldsmith of the age, Benvenuto Cellini, the beast entered the collection of the ultimate patron of the arts, Duke Cosimo I de’Medici. You can’t get a richer load of cultural history than that. 
Other staggering works of art come as reminders that the history of early Europe is a black hole the moment spotlights switch away from Ancient Greece and Rome.
Consider Spain. The winged lioness on loan from the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, California, is an enigma. It turned up out of the blue on the art market. Mr. Ekserdjian, citing technical considerations, writes that it is likely to have seen the light of day in ancient Tartessos, in modern Andalusia in Spain.
The trouble is that the lioness bears no resemblance to anything found in the Punic Levantine homeland, or even in its North African extension, Carthage, near modern Tunis. At least it can be seen to be one of the two arms of a royal throne of a type found as far east as Cyprus and beyond, in the Anatolian highlands of modern Turkey.
Nothing of the kind sheds light on what is perhaps the most extraordinary object in the show. The six-wheel carriage pulled by a horse curiously standing on the axles on the front and middle wheels was extracted 110 years ago from a Danish bog at Trundholm. It was dubbed a Sun Chariot because a very large disk retaining much of the gold leaf that once covered it entirely is set up in vertical position at the back. A geometrical pattern of wheels revolves around a central wheel, all of it delicately wrought in repoussé. Calling it a “Sun Chariot” is inspirational guess work, and so is dating it to the 14th century B.C. We really haven’t got a clue.
This monument created by a yet-to-be-identified culture in Prehistoric Northern Europe is rarely seen outside the National Museum of Denmark in Copenhagen. It adds one more to the list of unique works that make the show an absolute must. Displayed in a case by itself, the chariot has mercifully been spared the Comic Relief treatment.
And then there are two recent discoveries, both of them deeply surprising. 
In 2004, the head of a bearded man, startling in its scrupulous rendition of naturalistic detail, was excavated at Shipka in central Bulgaria. Specialists identified it as the head of Seuthes III by comparing it with coins on which legends in the Greek alphabet name the ruler whose image resembles the three-dimensional portrait. This would date it to the fourth century B.C. 
Determining the school that created it is more tricky. The three-dimensional portrait of Seuthes III, if that is him, is so different in its aggressive realism from Greek art that some scepticism may be excusable concerning its “Greek” character, stated in the book as self-evident.
Greater uncertainty hovers over the astonishing helmet unearthed in 2010 by a treasure hunter using a metal detector in northern England. The archaeological context was not properly recorded. Called “Roman,” the piece of armor reproduces an Iranian head dress known as the “Phrygian bonnet” represented on rock reliefs and silver plate from Sasanian Iran. The small griffin in the round that tops it would suggest the Semitic areas of present day Iraq under Parthian or early Sasanian rule.
Mr. Ekserdjian, who is on less familiar ground with Middle Eastern and Far Eastern cultures, did not request works on a par with those from the West. The Musée Guimet in Paris has one of the most beautiful Chinese silver-inlaid bronze vases dating from the late Warring States period and the British Museum should ideally be represented by the famous Shang dynasty vessel with the foreparts of two rams back to back.
An “Islamic lion” that passed through Christie’s is out of place here. Its calligraphic frieze attempts in vain to imitate the style of the Kufic script engraved on the so-called griffin from 10th-century Arab Spain preserved in Pisa. To Mr. Ekserdjian’s regret, the Italian authorities were understandably reluctant to see it travel.
Neither India nor Cambodia are represented by their greatest works.
As it is, there is already too much in the show. By the end of the visit, it feels a bit like a gigantic bronze jumble sale. Jumping back and forth across cultures can be fun but it has its limits.
MORE than a decade ago, when Kate and Matt Hilgenberg were hunting for an apartment together, he insisted they rent a two-bedroom. As a trumpet player, he wanted a door to close so he could practice at home, which he did for hours on end. 
They had two choices: a new place near ground zero, where the monthly rent would be reduced to $1,400 from $2,400 for two years, or a rent-stabilized place in south Harlem. The couple believed it unwise to take an apartment where the rent could soar when the lease expired, so they chose Harlem. 
Renting the Harlem apartment, which then cost around $1,300 a month, was “the best decision we made in our lives,” said Mrs. Hilgenberg, a freelance television producer. 
When their son, Bennett, was born about six years ago, Mrs. Hilgenberg said, the rent was low enough that “I was able to make this huge life decision, which was to cut our budget way back and stay home with my child.” 
Mr. Hilgenberg soon added a teaching job to his many gigs, and now teaches band for the Mamaroneck Public Schools in Westchester County. 
A few years later, by this time with a daughter, Lila, the Hilgenbergs moved downstairs to a similar but renovated apartment. Their rent eventually rose to around $1,850 a month. 
They didn’t intend to remain. “We spoke to a lot of people about, realistically, how long a boy and a girl can share a room before it gets awkward,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said.
That was a few years off. Meanwhile, the elevator kept breaking. The building harbored vermin. The block was noisy. 
“We moved in there as boyfriend-girlfriend,” she said. “We weren’t thinking kids and dogs and kindergarten and washer-dryer.”
Two years ago they were at last ready to buy a place. That’s because bequests from the estates of Mr. Hilgenberg’s parents provided enough money for a down payment. 
“Kate was online for two years every day,” Mr. Hilgenberg said. “She treated it like guys look at porn online, but she was looking at real estate, like late at night when everyone’s in bed.”
Their primary concern was enough space for two growing children and their dog, Smithers. They wanted three bedrooms, two bathrooms and a decent kitchen. Their preferred location was Harlem, where they loved the neighborly vibe. They sought help from R. Lela Bourne, an agent at Bond New York, planning to pay around $650,000, although their price range soon rose. 
They found that a lot of buildings, especially new ones, had one large combination kitchen, living room and dining room. Mrs. Hilgenberg realized she preferred separate rooms. Otherwise, “there is no escape,” she said, adding that at some point, “Bennett is going to be here with teenage boys; I want him to have friends over, and I don’t want to have to hide in my bedroom.”
Mr. Hilgenberg fell for a large duplex condominium in a brownstone on East 126th Street, enticed by its soundproof music studio. The listing price was $850,000, the common charge $1,100 a month. 
“Something about the staircase made me feel I was in a home instead of an apartment,” he said. 
So dazzled were they that “we were almost ready to buy it on the spot,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said. 
But Ms. Bourne reined them in. “On paper, it had all of the prioritized checklist items,” she said. “I encouraged them to go and view the house at all hours of the day and night.” 
When they did, walking Smithers, they came up against the fact that the neighborhood was dominated by MetroNorth’s Harlem-125th Street station and several parking lots. They saw few of the shops and services that they would need.
“My eyes were glazed over from the music studio,” Mr. Hilgenberg said. “We would have moved there in a second if it had been anywhere else. I was very bummed to think it out and come to the conclusion no.” (It later sold for $790,000.)
Another possibility was a four-bedroom in a prewar co-op building near Central Park North, just two blocks from their rental. The price was $635,000, the maintenance fee nearly $900 a month. But the interior renovation had eradicated any prewar charm. 
“Renovations, when they are done by other people,” Ms. Bourne said, “don’t always meet your standards.” 
So the Hilgenbergs considered another four-bedroom in a well-located co-op on Morningside Avenue that would have required a complete renovation. The price was a low $425,000, the maintenance less than $1,100 a month. 
But “I realized I couldn’t do a gut,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said. “I love the idea of doing a gut, but I couldn’t do it. I had been watching too much HGTV for my own good.” 
Then, last spring, Ms. Bourne came upon a listing for a large duplex in a co-op in Morningside Heights. It had 1,600 square feet and a small patio. “I read the description and got goose bumps,” Ms. Bourne said. She knew it would sell quickly. 
The asking price was $869,000, monthly maintenance $1,750. The apartment was on the high end of their budget, so Mrs. Hilgenberg was reluctant to look. 
But as soon as she saw the downstairs, perfect for a play area, she knew the place was right. The couple offered $835,000, but several other interested parties bid, too. The Hilgenbergs ended up paying the full asking price. 
The family arrived in early fall, and so far they are thrilled with their new home. “We have room now to get away from one another,” Mrs. Hilgenberg said. “The kids can be watching TV downstairs and we can be upstairs at the table having a drink.” Mr. Hilgenberg has plenty of practice space downstairs, too.
There are a few things he dislikes, like an eyesore of a meter near the kitchen ceiling and a squeaky spot in the floor. 
Changes, some daunting, are ahead. “You buy the place, you move in, you paint and that’s only the beginning,” he said. “Just choosing window treatments, thinking these are the window treatments we are going to have to live with for the next 15 years, possibly 30, and it’s $400 to cover one window and we’ve got like 12 windows to cover — you’ve got to be kidding me. You see the dollar signs on the cash register just flying by. You hear that ‘ka-ching ka-ching,’ and it’s scary.”
Still, he said, “just the thought I have the power to change things if I am so inclined is a really comforting thought, and I like that.”
Once they had found their home, Mrs. Hilgenberg never again went online to search for apartments. “That’s how I knew this was a true fit for us,” she said. “My biggest fear was I would want to keep looking .”
Ted Curson, a trumpeter who moved fluidly between soulful postbop and volatile free jazz, both as a leader and as a sideman with Charles Mingus, Cecil Taylor and Archie Shepp, died on Sunday in Montclair, N.J. He was 77.
The cause was heart failure, his wife, Marge, said.
Mr. Curson, who had a terse, muscular sound and a precise technique, was part of a generation of jazz trumpeters who followed in the wake of Clifford Brown, whose ease with the rigors of bebop he absorbed.
But Mr. Curson also came of age at a time of seismic change in jazz, which he felt firsthand through an affiliation with Mr. Taylor, the maverick pianist. Mr. Curson and the saxophonist Bill Barron, a close collaborator, formed the front line of Mr. Taylor’s quintet on “Love for Sale,” an oblique but swinging album released in 1959.
Soon afterward Mr. Curson fell in with Mingus, a harrowingly demanding bandleader intent on elasticizing the language of bebop. Mingus’s working band at the time, which also featured the alto saxophonist Eric Dolphy, recorded both in the studio and in concert; its defining document is a 1960 live recording, “Mingus at Antibes,” which added the tenor saxophonist Booker Ervin and the pianist Bud Powell.
Mr. Curson does some of his most celebrated work on that album, executing tight, melodic pirouettes against the urgent delirium of “Better Git Hit in Your Soul.”
He prized his rapport with Dolphy, a dynamic individualist whose ideas fell just outside the jazz orthodoxy. Mr. Curson featured Dolphy on one of his earliest albums. His best-known album, “Tears for Dolphy,” was made after the saxophonist’s death at 36 in 1964.
Theodore Curson was born on June 3, 1935, in Philadelphia. He studied at the Granoff School of Music before moving to New York, where he quickly found work.
After leaving Mingus and forming a sturdy small group with Mr. Barron, he recorded the 1965 Atlantic album “The New Thing & the Blue Thing,” whose title hints at his dual allegiance. Even as he was making hard-boppish music with Mr. Barron and others, he was engaging with provocateurs like Mr. Taylor and Mr. Shepp, the saxophonist whose 1965 Impulse album “Fire Music” features Mr. Curson as the first soloist.
The expressive clarity of Mr. Curson’s sound also led to a job contributing to the soundtrack of “Teorema,” a 1968 Pier Paolo Pasolini film, though only Ennio Morricone, who also contributed, received composer credit.
In addition to his wife, Mr. Curson is survived by a son, Ted Jr.; a daughter, Charlene Jackson; six grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.  
Fame would largely elude Mr. Curson at home, but he found it in Finland, where he was a fixture at the Pori Jazz Festival, one of the biggest and oldest in Europe. Through a chance encounter with promoters in Paris, Mr. Curson played the inaugural Pori festival in 1966 and never missed a year after that. He received a key to the city in 1998.
But Mr. Curson also belonged to the greater New York area’s jazz scene. In 1983 he established a late-night jam session at the Blue Note, which he ran on and off for more than a decade. And for roughly the last 10 years he had been leading a jam session one night a month at Trumpets Jazz Club in Montclair. He had been scheduled to appear there on Wednesday.
Donald Byrd, one of the leading jazz trumpeters of the 1950s and early 1960s, who became both successful and controversial in the 1970s by blending jazz, funk and rhythm and blues into a pop hybrid that defied categorization, died on Feb. 4 in Dover, Del. He was 80. 
His death was confirmed by Haley Funeral Directors of Southfield, Mich. Word of Mr. Byrd’s death had circulated online for several days, but was not announced by his family. 
Almost from the day he arrived in New York City in 1955 from his native Detroit, Mr. Byrd was at the center of the movement known as hard bop, a variation on bebop that put greater emphasis on jazz’s blues and gospel roots. Known for his pure tone and impeccable technique, he performed or recorded with some of the most prominent jazz musicians of that era, including John Coltrane, Thelonious Monk, Sonny Rollins and the drummer Art Blakey, considered one of jazz’s great talent scouts. As a bandleader, Mr. Byrd was sometimes a talent scout too — one of the first to hire a promising young pianist named Herbie Hancock, who, like Mr. Byrd, would later be called a renegade for an approach that won a wide audience but displeased many critics. 
Mr. Byrd, a strong advocate of music education, spent much of the 1960s teaching. Then, in 1973, he made a surprising transition to pop stardom with the album “Black Byrd,” produced by the brothers Larry and Fonce Mizell, who had been his students at Howard University in Washington. With Mr. Byrd’s restrained licks (he played both trumpet and fluegelhorn) layered over an irresistible funk groove seasoned with wah-wah guitar and simple, repeated lyrics (“Get in the groove, just can’t lose”), “Black Byrd” reached the Billboard Top 100, where it peaked at No. 88. 
Mr. Byrd was hardly the first jazz musician to try such a crossover: Miles Davis had achieved a similar musical synthesis with “Bitches Brew” three years earlier. But “Black Byrd,” unlike “Bitches Brew,” was overtly pop-oriented, and its success was extremely rare for a jazz musician. It became, and for a long time remained, the best-selling album in the history of Blue Note Records, the venerable jazz label for which Mr. Byrd had been recording since the 1950s. 
“Then the jazz people starting eating on me,” Mr. Byrd recalled in a 1982 radio interview. “They had a feast on me for 10 years: ‘He’s sold out.’ Everything that’s bad was attributed to Donald Byrd. I weathered it, and then it became commonplace. Then they found a name for it. They started calling it ‘jazz fusion,’ ‘jazz rock.’ ” 
The criticism did not stop him from making more pop records. In addition to recording as a leader, he organized some of his Howard students into a group called the Blackbyrds and produced their records. The band had a string of hit singles in the 1970s, including “Walking in Rhythm,” which reached the Top 10 on the pop charts, and “Rock Creek Park,” which evoked late-night romance in a wooded park in Washington, D.C. 
“Rock Creek Park” became something of a local anthem and one of many recordings by Mr. Byrd to be sampled by rap and hip-hop artists, including Public Enemy, Nas and Ludacris. His music and the Blackbyrds’ has been sampled more than 200 times, with the 1975 album “Places and Spaces” among his most frequently repurposed recordings, according to the Web site whosampled.com.
“They use all of the music that I did in the ’50s, ’60s and the ’70s behind people like Tupac and LL Cool J,” Mr. Byrd told students in a lecture at Cornell in 1998. “I’m into all that stuff.” 
Donaldson Toussaint L’Ouverture Byrd II was born in Detroit on Dec. 9, 1932. His father, E. T. Byrd, was a Methodist minister. His music studies there at Wayne State University were interrupted by two years in the Air Force. After receiving a bachelor’s degree from Wayne State, Mr. Byrd moved to New York, where he began his jazz career in earnest and received a master’s in music education from the Manhattan School of Music. 
His musical pursuits were paralleled by a lifelong interest in education. He taught jazz at Howard, North Carolina Central University, Rutgers, Cornell, the University of Delaware and Delaware State University, and also studied law. In 1982 he received a doctorate in education from Teachers College at Columbia University. He spent many years, at various institutions, teaching a curriculum that integrated math and music education. 
In 2000 Mr. Byrd was given a Jazz Masters award by the National Endowment for the Arts. 
Mr. Byrd had homes in Dover, Del., and Teaneck, N.J. Information on his survivors was not available. 
In his 1998 Cornell lecture Mr. Byrd said he had been inspired by musicians who changed music, notably John Coltrane.
“I met him in the 11th grade in Detroit,” he said. “I skipped school one day to see Dizzy Gillespie, and that’s where I met Coltrane. Coltrane and Jimmy Heath just joined the band, and I brought my trumpet, and he was sitting at the piano downstairs waiting to join Dizzy’s band. He had his saxophone across his lap, and he looked at me and he said, ‘You want to play?’ 
“So he played piano, and I soloed. I never thought that six years later we would be recording together, and that we would be doing all of this stuff. The point is that you never know what happens in life.”
Slogans can get in the way of politics. A number of the combatants in the quarrel over Medicaid expansion in Texas regularly tell voters that government should be run more like a business. 
State officials, starting with Gov. Rick Perry, want the state to stay away from any expansion outlined in the federal Affordable Care Act. They object to creating an entitlement program where none currently exists, because they say they fear it will grow into a money-gobbling monument to big government — socialism, even. 
Besides, they say, Texas doesn’t have enough doctors and other medical professionals to provide care for the newly insured.
Those are political arguments. The business arguments — the financial arguments — go in the other direction. The state could abandon the expansion whenever it wants. In the meantime, the vast majority of the costs would be borne by the federal government. Turning away from a pot of money because it might disappear some day? Texas was built on businesses — oil, gas, real estate, agriculture — that ebb and flow, boom and bust. 
And politicians understand how businesses operate. 
The governor is poaching jobs from other states, evangelizing in the name of economic development on behalf of Texas; that’s sufficiently predatory enough and potentially profitable enough to qualify in some circles as businesslike. (Yes, he might also be running for national office again, but Ann Richards, who didn’t have national aspirations, made similar forays into other states.) 
On the other hand, the governor has been a full-time government employee since 1991. 
Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst is investigating what he says is a top aide’s multimillion-dollar embezzlement from his campaign accounts. In the political sense, it is going to be difficult for Mr. Dewhurst to argue that his prowess as a businessman and his mastery over money deserve more time on the state payroll. But the self-made zillionaire obviously knows how to run a business — that’s how he got rich.
Both Mr. Perry and Mr. Dewhurst can claim to know how the business world works, whether their recent records support it or not. But look at the capper: They and others are talking seriously about walking away from a gargantuan federal freebie. 
The federal government is offering to pay all of the costs of expanding the Medicaid program to some of the state’s uninsured population for three years, then to pay 90 percent of the costs for several years after that. Texas could, according to a report commissioned by Texas Impact, an interfaith public policy group, spend $15 billion over the next 10 years and pull down $100 billion in federal funds as a result. 
Here’s the business question: Why leave that kind of money on the table, especially if it’s going to be spent elsewhere if Texas opts out? 
The argument for expansion is that it would take care of a lot of people for some period of time — even if it doesn’t take care of them forever. The choice is between insuring a crowd of people for a few or many years, or not insuring them at all. Between providing their health care in expensive and inefficient emergency rooms, or taking care of them by expanding Medicaid.
It’s not just a good-government take-care-of-those-less-fortunate thing, either. Medicaid has enough flaws to feed a dozen think tanks. But by expanding Medicaid, the state would also bring in billions of dollars to pay for health care for people who aren’t insured now, providing relief to local taxpayers who wouldn’t be on the hook for nearly as much uncompensated care, turbocharging the state’s medical economy, and bringing federal tax dollars paid by Texans back into the state. 
If you don’t do that last bit, by the way, the money would otherwise go to places like California, Massachusetts, New York. Where’s the business sense in that? And where, because that’s a transfer of wealth in some measure from red to blue states, is the political sense?
It might be true that a Medicaid expansion will work only for a few years in Texas and other states; they can quit if that time comes. For many officeholders, it makes political sense to opt out. But if they were running state government like a business, without the political undertow, the conversation would already be over. 
Regarding “Beltway foreign policy” by Roger Cohen (Globalist, Feb. 19): As a U.N. legal adviser I watched as two years of good faith diplomacy were squandered when the George H.W. Bush administration refused to sign the Convention on Biological Diversity when it was concluded in 1992. The give and take of the two-year negotiations was painstaking and the U.S. delegation reflected the best of diplomacy. The audience for Bush’s refusal was domestic — Senate colleagues and an emerging biotechnology industry concerned about intellectual property. America’s credibility suffered then, as it does now, as long-term shared global interests were sacrificed on the altar of domestic political considerations. Alas, the political expediency of U.S. foreign policy under the Obama administration is nothing new.
 Susan H. Bragdon, Portland, Oregon 
There is no known provenance for the phrase “storming the court,” but for as long as there have been basketball courts, there have been faithful fans itching to celebrate significant wins on them with one another and their conquering heroes.
By now the act itself, a precursor to flash mobs, is so much a cliché that even WrestleMania looks spontaneous by comparison. After important wins, fans are preconditioned to seize the home court, and while the N.C.A.A. is probably loath to condone such behavior, two reasons make it a phenomenon not likely to stop anytime soon: it’s an intoxicating display of school unity and it looks great on TV.
Very rarely, however, does the pandemonium itself become a story. That happened Thursday night when Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski chose to make headlines by focusing on the manner in which deliriously happy Virginia fans swarmed players and coaches of both teams, along with referees and mascots in a horde of humanity, after the Cavaliers beat the third-ranked Blue Devils, 73-68, in Charlottesville.
With Virginia fans seemingly covering every square inch of the court, Duke had to push its way into the locker room — not exactly the way you want a game to end, especially after you’ve just been upset.
Duke is 11-4 in the Atlantic Coast Conference, with each loss coming on the road; Maryland, Miami and North Carolina State also thumped the Blue Devils before their fans mobbed the court. With a team that should be fine-tuning its rotation before the N.C.A.A. tournament, Krzyzewski knows full well the gravity of that statistic. You don’t win a national championship unless you can pack a suitcase.
The celebratory behavior is certainly not alien to the Duke basketball program, although it must be noted that a search on YouTube of “Duke fans storming the court” reveals hundreds of examples of opponents gone wild, but a scant few Blue Devils fans following suit. 
There are disbelieving Virginia Tech fans galloping onto the court and piling on one another in near delirium; stunned Temple fans, mouths agape as they run around in circles; and Miami Hurricane fans, shedding their cool personae, for a spirited and impromptu mosh pit. 
Even North Carolina gets into the act, although the word “saunter” seems more appropriate than “storm” in that instance. (Duke fans returned the favor after beating the Tar Heels in the 2011 A.C.C. championship game.)
Duke fans are called the Cameron Crazies, and they have certainly been known to distract opposing players, but for the most part, they play it the way U.C.L.A. fans did during the Bruins’ glory years in the 1960s and ’70s: they expect to win.
So does Krzyzewski, who would probably be the first to admit that he was not in the best of moods during his postgame news conference after his team lost to Virginia, an A.C.C. rival, behind a dominant 36-point performance by the Cavaliers junior guard Joe Harris. Krzyzewski was, as he explained to the news media, more concerned about his team’s well-being, as his players found themselves nose-to-nose with the rabid fans who had just ridiculed and jeered them for better than two hours.
“Just put yourself in the position of one of our players or coaches," Krzyzewski said to reporters. He mentioned that fans could curse at them, or push or hit him or his players. “And what do you do? What if you did something? That would be the story. We deserve that type of protection.”
There is clearly a chance of injury or of, as Krzyzewski said, a fan’s provoking an opposing player into an altercation. But here’s the reality: these are the same college students who often camp out for seats near the court. 
By game time, they are often shirtless, painted in team colors and fueled by a heady mix of adrenaline, exhaustion, Red Bull and alcohol. Cheerleaders are revving them up, there are people shooting T-shirts out of hand-held cannons, and mascots are frolicking to the university band’s blaring music. Players are encouraging them to cheer loudly, and oftentimes a public-address announcer is exhorting the crowd to “make some nooooise!” 
But beyond that, they are college students, a sui generis, and unless they are English majors, their game-day vocabulary rarely has room for words like “prudence” or “consequence.”
The truth is, no opposing fan ever feels badly for Duke’s coach or players, in the same way that no tears are shed on the other side when Tom Brady throws an interception or LeBron James misses a free throw. 
For fans of the teams that play the Blue Devils in basketball, every game is a championship game and every celebration — which in recent years, have been slightly more prevalent — is a chance for them to run to center court and thumb their noses at the program that always seems to have its pick of the best high school recruits.
“It’s not all fun and games when people are rushing the court, especially for the team that lost,” Krzyzewski said. “Again, congratulations to them, and they should have fun and burn benches and do all that stuff. I’m all for that. They have a great school, great kids, but get us off the court. That’s the bottom line.” 
It was a rare loss of composure for Krzyzewski — Burn benches? Really? — but it was understandable: a 66-year-old had just emerged from a mosh pit.
WASHINGTON
FIFTY years after the Supreme Court, in Gideon v. Wainwright, guaranteed legal representation to poor people charged with serious crimes, low-income criminal defendants, particularly black ones, are significantly worse off.
Don’t blame public defenders, who are usually overwhelmed. The problem lies with power-drunk prosecutors — I know, because I used to be one — and “tough on crime” lawmakers, who have enacted some of the world’s harshest sentencing laws. They mean well, but have created a system that makes a mockery of “equal justice under the law.” A black man without a high school diploma is more likely to be in prison than to have a job.
A poor person has a much greater chance of being incarcerated now than when Gideon was decided, 50 years ago today. This is not because of increased criminality — violent crime has plunged from its peak in the early 1990s — but because of prosecutorial policies that essentially target the poor and relegate their lawyers to negotiating guilty pleas, rather than mounting a defense.
After Gideon, things got better for poor defendants in the short term. Thousands who had not had lawyers at trial were released from jail. Many states and localities created public defenders’ offices. But political and legal developments soon eroded those achievements. 
The so-called war on crime greatly expanded criminal liability. A prosecutor can almost always find some charge: there are over 4,000 crimes on the federal books alone. Recreational drug use is one of the more popular activities in America, but racial minorities suffer the brunt of drug-related convictions.
In part because of federal grants to states to incarcerate drug offenders, the United States experienced the largest increase in incarceration in the history of the free world. Our population is less than 5 percent of the world’s but we have nearly 25 percent of its prisoners. When Gideon was decided, about 43 percent of defendants were indigent. Now, over 80 percent are. 
Since Gideon, the court quickly moved backward on defendants’ rights. Perhaps the greatest setback was Bordenkircher v. Hayes, decided in 1978. The defendant was accused of passing a bad check for $88.30. The prosecutor warned that if he turned down a plea offer of five years, the prosecutor would pursue a life sentence, under a repeat-offenders statute. The defendant opted for a jury trial and, sure enough, got a life sentence. The court ruled that while prosecutors had the authority to offer such draconian deals, that power “carries with it the potential for both individual and institutional abuse.”
Ruling on Texas’ “three strikes” law in 1980, the court upheld a life sentence for a man who refused to return $120.75 he’d been paid to repair an air-conditioner.
In 2000, it ruled that if the police see someone running from them in a high-crime neighborhood, they can detain him, even if they have no reason to suspect him of a crime. 
Today over 90 percent of accused people plead guilty. It’s rational, because the costs of being wrong are just too high. As a young prosecutor, I enjoyed having all this power. I worked on a case against a property clerk who was stealing supplies from a government office. We set up a sting, in which an undercover agent acted as a buyer of stolen merchandise. Each time the clerk committed to selling more stolen goods, his potential sentence increased by five years. We got the guilty plea we wanted.
The Supreme Court has famously stated that the prosecutor’s interest “is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done.” In our adversarial system, however, those are just words on paper. Gideon, meanwhile, is an underfunded mandate. Some public defenders are forced to juggle over 2,000 cases per year, as the journalist Karen Houppert found in a new book, “Chasing Gideon.”
The law professor Angela J. Davis has recommended that prosecutors conduct “impact studies” of their policies’ social and racial consequences. New York State provides a beacon of hope: over the last decade, it has reduced both its crime rate and its inmate population. 
The Supreme Court recently extended Gideon’s reach to the plea bargaining process, a potentially encouraging development. But, as the federal judge Jed S. Rakoff has written, the main problem is not defense lawyers’ “ineffectiveness” but prosecutors’ “overconfidence.”
Poor people lose, most of the time, in our criminal justice system not just because indigent defense is inadequately financed, although it is, and not because public defenders are ineffective, although some are. They lose because prosecutors and lawmakers treat them like losers. That is the real crisis of American indigent defense.
LONDON — There has barely been a European spring this year, but out of the cold and gray comes a most intriguing question: Can the Champions League be bought by money from the Gulf states? The world’s premier club tournament is at the quarterfinals stage. Two of the remaining eight teams — Paris Saint-Germain and Málaga — are owned by the same family, the rulers of Qatar.
A third club, the competition favorite Barcelona, advertises the Qatar Foundation on the front of the players’ shirts.
No one talks about conflict of interest the way they used to do at UEFA, the European soccer authority, whose flagship event is the Champions League.
Maybe that is because the wealth is so high and so narrowly sourced. Qatar finances, in whole or in part, three big clubs. Abu Dhabi bankrolls Manchester City, which will spend again this summer to rectify its failings in Europe. And a Russian, Roman Abramovich, spent $1 billion over 10 years to win the Champions League for Chelsea last May.
The Americans are in this fight, too — or they were until Manchester United got knocked out in the last round. The resources of Real Madrid, Bayern Munich and Juventus come through decades of belonging to Europe’s elite, and the backing of major industrialists and tens of thousands of members.
And Galatasaray of Turkey is a club that has grown over 107 years and represents a country that sees itself as a player between East and West in sports and politics alike.
Indeed, when Madrid plays Galatasaray on Wednesday, the Real coach José Mourinho will be staring at two players who were pivotal to teams he previously managed. Galatasaray recently signed Didier Drogba, who sealed the Champions League title for Chelsea when the final was decided by penalty kicks, and Wesley Sneijder, the playmaker for Inter Milan when Mourinho coached it to win the tournament in 2010.
Mourinho setting out to destroy what he helped to build is one fascinating subplot. What happens in Paris on Tuesday has even more internecine elements.
Aside from P.S.G. and Barcelona both drinking from the same financial well, the opponents on the field know each other like brothers. They were that close, or attempted to be, when Zlatan Ibrahimovic and the Brazilian defender Maxwell shared the dressing room at Barcelona with Lionel Messi and Xavi Hernández.
Ibrahimovic, a god in every other team he has played for, did not fit Barça’s collective. He is too much of an individualist. As good as he is in the air and on the ground, Ibra was not suited to sharing the ball as quickly as Barcelona play demands.
As an ego, he wants to be the main man in attack — and how could that figure at a team where Messi is pivotal and deliberately low key? Maxwell suited the Barça formula well enough as an attacking wing back in the Brazilian style. But so do the current right back Dani Alves and the left back Jordi Alba, not to mention Adriano.
As matchups go, the one Tuesday will have none better than Messi, Andrés Iniesta and company darting in and out of the penalty box marshaled for P.S.G. by another Brazilian, Thiago Silva.
“This,” Silva says, “is the game we have been dreaming about.” 
It has been 18 years since P.S.G. took on, and beat, Barcelona at this stage of the competition. The two youngest players on the Paris team, Javier Pastore and Marco Verratti, would have been in kindergarten then. 
Éric Abidal, the Frenchman who is almost back to full fitness after a liver transplant, is at the other end of the age spectrum.
He will be thrilled to be in Paris, and content to bide his time on the bench. Just a few moments on the field, here or in the second leg in a week’s time, would represent his personal triumph — over doubt as much as illness.
On so many levels, this is a contest about life. P.S.G. is coached by Carlo Ancelotti, the Italian who has won Europe’s foremost prize as a player and coach more times than any other individual.
Ancelotti knows the formula, and Ibrahimovic, his player at Milan and again in Paris, says the obvious: “We will need to stay focused,” he said Sunday. “The coach will probably set up specific tactics to block the best team in the world.” 
With any luck, Ancelotti will pit his wits on the sideline against Tito Vilanova. And here will be a second story.
Vilanova’s first season as the senior coach at Barcelona has been interrupted by a return of his throat cancer. He took over the responsibility last summer when Pep Guardiola, his friend and former boss, opted to take a year’s sabbatical.
Guardiola and his family settled in New York. Neither man could have known that by mid-season Vilanova would be in the same city, needing intensive therapy for his cancer.
Barcelona has wobbled slightly in Vilanova’s absence. It is still winning the Spanish Liga in a canter but was mauled, twice, by Real Madrid. And its players obliged themselves to turn around a two-goal loss in Milan to beat the Italians 4-0 at home in the next leg.
Vilanova watched that from New York, communicating via video link and telephone, while his understudy, Jordi Roura, oversaw the comeback.
Provided the doctors permit it, Vilanova wants to be back in charge at the Parc des Princes in Paris. His players say his presence re-energizes them, but what can any man do from the sidelines? 
In the end, thank goodness, the money and the subplots are nothing: The winning is down to the players. 
LONDON
The newest top-flight manager in English soccer — appointed by the American financier who owns the club and given the emergency task of keeping his club, Sunderland, from tumbling out of the Premier League and losing its rich yield in television rights — Paolo di Canio arrived over the weekend with what his critics identified as a repugnant weight of political baggage.
As a player for Lazio in Rome in 2005, di Canio greeted a far-right section of the club’s supporters known as “ultras” with a stiff-armed, flat-palmed fascist salute. In his autobiography in 2000, he acknowledged a fascination with Benito Mussolini, Italy’s wartime Fascist leader, and described him as “basically a very principled individual.” A prominent tattoo on his right arm spells out the word “Dux,” Latin for “leader,” the title favored by Mussolini.
Controversy has swirled around di Canio’s appointment since it was announced Saturday. A former British foreign minister, David Miliband, summarily resigned as Sunderland’s vice president. A local coal miners’ group called the appointment “a disgrace and betrayal of all who fought and died in the fight against fascism,” including miners from Sunderland’s last operating colliery, shuttered in the 1990s and replaced by the soccer club’s 49,000-seat stadium, which is officially known as the Stadium of Light, in commemoration of a miner’s lamp.
Still, di Canio, 44, held his ground Tuesday in a news conference in Sunderland.
Confronted with a barrage of questions about his political views, he said the only issue facing him was the challenge of winning enough points in the season’s remaining games to keep Sunderland from the “drop zone,” the bottom three finishers in the 20-club Premier League who are automatically relegated each season to the second-tier Championship division.
“I’m not in the Houses of Parliament, I’m not a political person, I will only talk about football,” he said before hastening away at the behest of a club official.
But hopes of escaping his past seemed doomed, for now at least, as an array of groups laid plans to protest Sunderland’s first game under di Canio, against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge in London on Sunday. With soccer’s world and European governing bodies, FIFA and UEFA, under pressure to act more aggressively against a wave of racial incidents among players and spectators, the game — and the remainder of Sunderland’s season — seem likely to be played against a backdrop of such protests.
Di Canio’s supporters, led by Sunderland officials, seem sure to continue to argue on his behalf, contending that his fascist sympathies have been, in large measure, at least, free of the racial hatred that characterized the fascist outrages of World War II.
In a 2005 interview, after being suspended and fined by the Italian soccer league for using the fascist salute at Lazio, di Canio was quoted saying that he was “a fascist, not a racist.” It was a theme he touched on again briefly Tuesday when he urged reporters to talk to two former teammates, both black, who he said were among his closest friends, and to his British manager, Phil Spencer, whom he identified as Jewish.
“Speak with black players, call Trevor Sinclair, call Chris Powell, call Phil Spencer, who is a Jewish person, and ask them,” he said.
It was not an approach likely to convince critics like Miliband, foreign secretary in the last Labour government, who announced last week that he was resigning his House of Commons seat, for a district near Sunderland, to take a new post as head of the International Rescue Committee, a New York charity.
Miliband, 47, whose parents were refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe, issued a cursory statement Saturday night within minutes of di Canio’s appointment, announcing he was quitting his $190,000-a-year post on the club’s board. “In the light of the new manager’s past political statements, I think it right to step down,” he said.
Amid the welter of criticism that the di Canio appointment drew in British newspapers, there was some mitigation from sportswriters who claimed to have known di Canio personally or to have followed his playing career, which carried him to a succession of big clubs in Italy and Britain, including Lazio, A.C. Milan, West Ham and Glasgow Celtic, before he took up coaching two years at a minor league club in England, Swindon Town.
One of these who offered a cautious defense was Guy Adams in The Daily Mail, who said that some pro-Mussolini citations from di Canio’s autobiography had been unfairly lifted to make them seem more damning than they were. He cited one such passage as saying of the Italian leader: “He deceived people. His actions were often vile. But all this was motivated by a higher purpose. He was basically a very principled individual.”
Still, di Canio’s appointment as manager seems to be a huge gamble. Relegation to a lower division would cost Sunderland, currently one point above the Premier League drop zone, about $90 million in television revenue next season. The club’s annual earnings last year were about $120 million.
For Sunderland’s owner, Ellis Short, a billionaire head of a Dallas hedge fund and one of a group of Americans who own five Premier League clubs, also including Aston Villa, Arsenal and Liverpool, the prospect of relegation was enough to cost the popular Northern Irishman Martin O’Neill, the manager since 2011, his job after a 1-0 loss to Manchester United on Saturday.
Short, 52, who lives in London, made the call appointing di Canio himself, after what other club officials described as an intensive weighing of the new manager’s qualifications and background, including his political leanings. Di Canio said Monday that at first he thought the owner’s call was a prank, given the wide gulf between his 18 months of experience, ending with his sudden walkout in January from his post as manager of Swindon Town, a club that is contending for promotion from League One, two tiers below the Premier League.
His tenure at Swindon was marked with controversy, mostly for his managerial style. A former chief executive at Swindon, Nick Watkins, described di Canio’s style as “management by hand grenade” after di Canio abused a referee in front of TV cameras, kicked one of his players on the backside after substituting him in a crucial game, and called his team “donkeys” and “Chihuahuas” after poor performances, only to praise them later, after a relentless regimen of physical training and a raft of changes, as “Rottweilers.”
Little of this seemed to trouble Short. In a statement issued by the club Saturday, he said the appointment was made with one goal in mind, Sunderland’s survival in the Premier League.
“Paolo is hugely enthused by the challenge that lies ahead of him,” he said. “He is passionate, driven, and raring to get started. The sole focus of everyone for the next seven games will be to ensure we get enough points to maintain our top-flight status. I think that the chances of that are greatly increased with Paolo joining us.”
BEIJING — A Chinese society is in ferment. Decades of fast economic growth under one-party rule have made its people richer, but they feel painfully their lack of freedom and security, their inability to protect their prosperity.
A strongman, knowing his health is failing, decides to go with the flow of world history as nations in Asia democratize, and liberalize his nation. Suddenly, truth is on everyone’s lips as free speech and media restrictions are lifted. Social issues germinating for years coalesce into civil society groups that advocate for labor rights, women’s rights, ethnic minority rights, consumer rights, environmental protection and more. Alternative political parties are legalized. People vote. A democracy is born.
No, this isn’t a science fiction movie about China, circa 2017, but roughly what happened in Taiwan in 1987, when the leader of the ruling Kuomintang, Chiang Ching-kuo, the son of the longtime dictator Chiang Kai-shek, lifted martial law, ending the control his party and its security apparatus had exerted over the Republic of China, which they moved to Taiwan in 1949 after fleeing the Communists on the Chinese mainland.
Could such a thing happen in mainland China? And more important — who would be the strongman to decide?
On many levels, there are similarities between Taiwan in 1987 and mainland China today. Both are Chinese in the sense that Chinese is spoken and there is a majority Chinese culture, however that is defined. Mainland China now, like Taiwan then, is riddled with issues where many people want to see change, from education to pollution to corruption. Many may not want an outright democracy, unsure what that means for the country, but they want more say in their society. Some of these views are shared by senior leaders in the government and party. Yet a key difference is that, in 1987, Taiwan had a strongman whose power, with his health, was failing. It was a moment of change.
Mainland China’s strongmen — for today they are a group, and not an individual — don’t see themselves as failing.
“China is not failing, China is rising, and very proud and arrogant,” said Michael Hsiao, director of the Institute of Sociology at the Academia Sinica in Taiwan.
“China has no shortage of strongmen. Every 10 years they organize and plan for strongmen,” he said. (Such a leadership transition just concluded, in a carefully managed process beginning last November and ending in March.)
Is the “failing strongman” period the only moment for change?
It’s an opportunity, Dr. Hsiao said.
China has had its “failing strongman” moments — at least twice, Dr. Hsiao said, pointing to the final years of Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping. “But what follows? In China, a group of strongmen takes over.” That’s the seven members of the Politburo Standing Committee, which effectively runs the country and works via consensus.
“Back in 1987, the legitimacy of the Chiang dynasty was in a shaky state,” Dr. Hsiao said. Chiang Ching-kuo knew it was impossible for a third generation to continue to run Taiwan.
“If he wanted to live on in history, he had to turn to liberalism,” he said.
But crucially, unlike Taiwan, where underground social movements known as the “outside party” were coalescing, mainland China’s civil society today is weak, kept so deliberately by the party, which knows it is the potential locus of social and political change. Every day across the country people and groups spring up calling for change, only to be silenced. Groups that linger are often co-opted, Dr. Hsiao said. Many of China’s intellectuals are “cynical” about democracy, something that stops them from being truly useful for achieving it, he said. 
Essentially, said Mark Harrison, a Taiwan specialist at the University of Tasmania, power is different here.
“The Chinese Communist Party exercises power in more sophisticated and intricate ways than the Kuomintang when it was in total control,” Dr. Harrison said by telephone from Australia. “In China, the C.C.P. is what power looks like. It is power. And it’s hard for that pervasive force to think outside of itself.”
Put another way, there are many similarities between Taiwan in 1987 and China in 2013, but many differences.
So is reform unlikely? “It could be done,” Dr. Hsiao said, “but it would require a group of people inside the power center to say, ‘Let’s do something, but I will protect your interests.”’
“China has riots and chaos, but civil society is too weak and not organized,” he said. “Continual social unrest, and chaos — that’s a more likely scenario.”
“The power center will never liberalize unless the pressure is real,” he said. “And in China, they don’t think the pressure is real, because it’s not organized.”
Why reform? Is it even necessary, as the country grows richer?
“China may be growing richer, but inequality is widening,” Dr. Hsiao said.
“And a sense of relative deprivation can also be a force for revolution,” he said. “People may say, ‘O.K., you made the poor not so poor, but you made the rich very rich and without equitable distribution.’ That’s why you need reform. And what makes the inequality worse, day by day? Political corruption.”
So, is Xi Jinping a strongman? “Even if he is tough and strong, I don’t think he can act alone,” Dr. Hsiao said. “If he comes out as a strongman for reform, then his peers will feel threatened.”
And that is the problem of the strong group. It is trapped by its power and its numbers.
Adolph Herseth, the principal trumpeter of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra for 53 years and one of the most accomplished and influential orchestral trumpeters of his time, died on April 13 at his home in Oak Park, Ill. He was 91.
His death was confirmed by his wife, Avis.
Mr. Herseth was the symphony’s principal trumpet from 1948 to 2001, a stretch roughly double the average career span for elite instrumentalists and coinciding with the orchestra’s rise to the top ranks. Under Georg Solti and four other conductors he defined the orchestra’s distinctive brass sonority. 
The sparkling virtuosity of his playing — and the way his cheeks flushed beet-red when he played staccato high notes — made Mr. Herseth something of a celebrity among classical music audiences in Chicago. Autograph seekers often mobbed him at the stage door of Orchestra Hall, a trumpet player or two usually among them asking to study at his feet.
But outside Chicago he was considered a buried treasure. Describing Mr. Herseth as “quite possibly the most dazzling player on his instrument in the world today,” Donal Henahan of The New York Times lamented his relative obscurity, attributing it largely to the paucity of great music for orchestral trumpet. 
“If Beethoven, Brahms and Mozart had left a repertory of trumpet concertos, Mr. Herseth might be as familiar to the world as Heifetz, Horowitz or Rostropovich,” Mr. Henahan wrote.
By his own account, Mr. Herseth, a genial, plain-spoken native of rural Minnesota, did not seek wider fame, saying he found more pleasure in collective music-making than in solo playing. 
“That’s the biggest thrill of all,” he told The Chicago Tribune, “just to be in a band like this, with colleagues like these, and with conductors for whom we can make exciting music.”
For his 50th anniversary with the symphony, in 1998, Mr. Herseth resisted plans for a gala event that would have put him in the spotlight — “tooting my own horn,” in his words. 
Instead, he invited a large contingent of colleagues, former students and old friends, including the trumpet player and former “Tonight Show” band leader Doc Severinsen, to join in the concert. 
Adolph Sylvester Herseth was born on July 25, 1921, to Cora and Adolph Herseth in Lake Park, a town of only several hundred people in northern Minnesota’s lake country. His father was a schoolteacher, school administrator and director of a children’s orchestra.
“It was a very musical culture,” Avis Herseth said in an interview on Friday. She met her future husband in the trumpet section of the fourth-grade band in neighboring Bertha, Minn. “Everybody played something, or sang in the church choir.” (She did both, she said.)
Avis and Adolph, who was known as Bud, were married in 1943. In addition to his wife — “the only girl I ever dated,” he told an interviewer — Mr. Herseth is survived by a daughter, Christine Hoefer; a son, Stephen; six grandchildren; five great-grandchildren; and a brother, John. 
Mr. Herseth graduated from Luther College in Decorah, Iowa, intending to become a music teacher. But after serving in the Navy during World War II and playing trumpet in military bands, he decided on a career as a performer.
In 1948 he was working on a master’s degree at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston when he received a telegram from Artur Rodzinski, the Chicago Symphony’s music director, summoning him to an audition. Someone at the conservatory must have recommended him, Mr. Herseth said later. He never learned who. 
The audition was a stunning success. To Mr. Herseth’s surprise, Mr. Rodzinski announced immediately afterward that Mr. Herseth, then 26, would be the new first trumpet.
The emotional energy and perfectly articulated sonic detail for which Mr. Herseth became known are prominent in many of the Chicago Symphony’s most acclaimed recordings, including Mahler’s Fifth Symphony and the “promenade” parts in Mussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibition.”
After giving up his post in 2001, Mr. Herseth held the title of first trumpet emeritus until 2004, when he officially retired.
John Hagstrom, who sat next to Mr. Herseth for several years as second trumpet, recalled a story about a conductor who seemed unnerved by Mr. Herseth’s red-faced appearance during the most taxing trumpet passages. “Mr. Herseth, maybe put on some powder,” the conductor suggested. 
Mr. Herseth demurred, he told Mr. Hagstrom. “It shows people I’m trying,” he said.
LONDON — In the race to the finish, after two late goals by Real Madrid cast sudden doubt on the presumption that German soccer is all-powerful in Europe again, one man silently slipped away from the directors’ box at the Santiago Bernabéu.
“For the first time in my life, I had to give up due to heart problems,” Hans-Joachim Watzke, the chief executive of Borussia Dortmund, explained later. “I went to the toilet for the last minutes, locked myself in, covered my ears and looked at my watch. I had all kind of thoughts going through my head.” There is nothing medically wrong with Herr Watzke. At 53, he has played his part in restoring Borussia from financial ruin to the pinnacle of European soccer, all in the span of a single decade. But he couldn’t watch after Karim Benzema and Sergio Ramos scored in the 83rd and 88th minutes to bring Real Madrid within one more goal of eliminating the Germans from the Champions League, the final of which will be played in London later this month.
When the officials indicated that five more minutes would be added beyond the regulation 90, that was when Watzke could watch no longer. “It seems,” he said, “like we only can do things with drama.”
He can be thankful that Dortmund’s dramatists happen to be particularly youthful, and strong in heart and mind. For that, in the end, was what carried the team through in a semifinal series in which it had devastated Madrid, 4-1, just one week ago. On Tuesday, in Real’s own legendary stadium and with 70,000 Madridistas baying for the final comeback, Borussia conceded two goals, but it would not let in the third that would have given the Spanish team a victory on the strength of away goals.
It was that close. The margin was that palpitating. And the story last week about Germany reigning supreme over Spain was paper-thin at the delayed final whistle.
What does have to be examined is why Dortmund’s margin in the first leg appeared so overwhelming. And how the Madrid giant, with the greatest financial clout in the global game, according to the latest ratings by Forbes magazine, could put in two such disparate performances in the space of six nights.
The analysis, I fancy, will come down to team management. Over the two legs, we could see that Real Madrid — with the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Mesut Ozil and Ángel Di María — had the most dazzling individuals in the contest.
Dortmund had youth, and it had, in the Pole Robert Lewandowski, a man who struck four handsome goals last week, though he may have missed just as many opportunities this week in the Bernabéu.
That is a harsh judgment, because nobody can say that Lewandowski tried any less this week in Madrid, or that he lacked commitment or bravery. He needed both, because after Coach José Mourinho publicly questioned last week why none of his Real defenders had fouled the Pole during the first encounter, his captain, Ramos, did so repeatedly Tuesday.
Four times the Spaniard’s arm or elbow found its way pointedly into the cheekbones of Lewandowski. Four times the English referee, Howard Webb, either conveniently looked the other way or acted leniently by not sending off the aggressor.
But that wasn’t the only reason why the two legs swung in different directions. The crux was in Dortmund’s strength of character. The collective will that each player would give his utmost for the team was exemplified by the defender Mats Hummels.
By all accounts, Hummels is the central defender that Barcelona is preparing to offer big money to buy when this season is over. We could see why. In the first game, Hummels’s error led to Ronaldo scoring for Real, but he atoned both at home and away with graceful defending under pressure.
We forget that the game is about defense as much as it is about the headline stars of attack. Ronaldo is the costliest player in soccer history, going by the £80 million that Madrid paid Manchester United for him some years back.
Often, Ronaldo justifies that figure, now worth about $125 million. Over the 180 minutes he played against Dortmund, he didn’t. Maybe that was because of Hummels and Co. Maybe it was explained by Real’s story about Ronaldo suffering a thigh strain, or maybe it was even about the gossip about his love life.
No matter the reason, Ronaldo mirrored Madrid’s failure in living up to its price tag. And Hummels epitomized Dortmund’s understated effort.
“Everybody in our team dreamed of this,” said Hummels late into the night in Madrid. “I know I did, when I was a child.” He paused, thought for a second, and quietly added: “Some of us are still children. And we are going to Wembley.”
Hummels is 24, which makes him slightly older than the average among players on his team. They are products of a side raised in a remarkable five years under the tutelage of Jürgen Klopp, a true coach in the way that he finds players to polish and integrate into the attacking style that he covets.
It was said that Chelsea saw Klopp as its next coach, but he reminded everyone that he is happily under contract to Dortmund. The other coach, Mourinho, is not so tied.
Immediately after the final whistle, after the closure of Madrid’s ambition to return to the European Cup that it regards almost as its heirloom, Mourinho appeared on the British channel ITV.
He was asked whether he would be back for a fourth attempt to take Real beyond the semifinals. “Maybe not,” he replied.
Mourinho is under contract beyond this season, but he said that contracts can be broken, and he wishes to go where people love him and appreciate him. That is not Madrid; it is England, and in particular Chelsea, where he feels he has unfinished business despite having been fired there in 2007.
Tuesday should not have been about one man. Making it appear so possibly told us why Madrid’s collection of arguably greater talents fell to the team from Dortmund.
There is a grand plan to be found for Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, a face-lift for this dowdy old dame. 
It would unearth the ancient Flushing River, which snakes unseen beneath casements of ash, landfill and concrete. It would put jackhammers to a dull-as-asphalt plaza in Queens and reseed it green and lush. It would dredge Willow and Meadow Lakes, bringing a circulating balm to polluted bodies.
This plan is not found in a dog-eared old volume moldering on a shelf in the municipal archives. Rather, the Strategic Framework Plan was released five years ago and adorns the front page of the Flushing Meadows-Corona Park Web site. 
It was handiwork of renowned landscape architects. They bow, repeatedly, toward the man for whom they labored: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. Their plan, they wrote, could become a “premiere example” of his effort to “make the city more sustainable and environmentally responsive.”
Their rhetoric was so 2008. 
Mr. Bloomberg, who has seeded several beautiful parks during his mayoralty, has found a new obsession: He wants to let Major League Soccer place a spaceship of a soccer stadium atop a mound of dirt near the core of Flushing Meadow Park.
In exchange for at least 10 acres of prime parkland, an expansion team’s proposed owner, an Abu Dhabi oil sheik, promises to build a stadium with his own money, which really is grand of him. He proposes to lavish tens of millions of dollars for new benches, trees, barbecue pits, walkways and soccer fields, and to underwrite some staff.
“We will propose the largest investment ever in that park,” says John H. Alschuler Jr., chairman of HR & A Advisors, lobbyist for Major League Soccer.
For its stadium labors, HR & A earned $1.3 million last year. Mr. Alschuler serves, too, as chairman of High Line Park in Manhattan, a diamond of a six-acre park with a budget — most of it privately raised from the city’s wealthiest.
Mr. Alschuler takes the role of a mournful realist; he advises paying little mind to that strategic report. A park without a corporate stepparent risks becoming dusty and forgotten.
“The Parks Department has no capital budget it can allocate — that has been its condition for many years,” he said. The chances of any facet of the strategic plan “being financed in the lifetime of even my daughter runs from the highly unlikely to the impossible,” he said, adding: “That is the opinion of any reasonably informed park advocate.”
That is debatable, as many passionate advocates have lined up against surrendering a patrimony — green space — for another stadium. Nor is the sheik’s tab, even if it runs into the tens of millions of dollars, to be mistaken for charitable munificence. 
As it stands, Sheik Mansour bin Zayed al-Nahyan would pay $1 per year on his city lease, and no sales or property taxes. By contrast, the owner of a Flushing Meadows taco van could pay as much as $30,000, and pay sales taxes.
So our curious world: Park advocates are advised to tug at the cuff of wealthy patrons rather than seek financing through the tax rolls. And an oil sheik can, with a straight face, lay claim to public land and get a bargain at that.
Flushing Meadows is a park teenager: Its sycamores rise in long pint-size rows, not yet half the size of their elders in Prospect and Central Parks. The park keeps a toehold on Flushing Bay, but to get there you must thread a path around bus depots, rail yards and a baseball stadium. (Citi Field is another monument to public capitalism, built with public tax-exempt bonds and profits — such as they are — deposited in private bank accounts.)
The park’s center resides in the historic World’s Fair site, where a glistening unisphere rises from a garland of cherry and magnolia trees. That master plan proposes to build a hillock or two, but this is old marshland. You can gussy it up only so much.
On Sunday, as thousands of Mexican families poured out of the walk-up apartments of Corona, Elmhurst and Jackson Heights for a Cinco de Mayo festival, and mariachi bands struck up and three dozen soccer games began, the park’s prosaic beauty was apparent.
I found Marcelo Tepan and his 10-year-old son, Jonathan, setting a picnic beneath a magnolia tree. Mr. Tepan is from Ecuador and his work weeks are long. “I don’t want them to tear out trees and the pond,” he says. “Put a big stadium somewhere else. This is where I play with my son and rest my mind.”
I always thought love was love, no matter where you were in the world. I learned differently when I was based in New Delhi for two months in 2006.
On my fifth day in the country, one of my new colleagues told me he was in love with me and had been from the moment I walked into the office.
This conversation took place in a hotel room in Agra. I had mentioned on my third day at work that I wanted to see the Golden Triangle (the cities of New Delhi, Jaipur and Agra, home of the Taj Mahal) that weekend. 
My colleague volunteered to accompany me. 
Actually, he didn’t volunteer. He said: “I’ve never seen the Taj Mahal. I’ll go with you.” 
It was a little weird, but mostly I felt relieved. I’ve traveled on my own a lot, but India is a tricky place, especially for a single white female. Having a local accompany me on my first adventure sounded great.
It wasn’t until we were in the train heading to Jaipur that I realized he might have motives other than seeing a monument an hour away that he hadn’t bothered to visit. But I wasn’t averse to a tryst. I had come to India in part to get past my last relationship, which had not ended well. A fling on my first weekend in the country seemed like a good start.
Nothing happened the first night. On the second night, in Agra, we decided to split a room to save money. Before long we were kissing, and it occurred to me that we should discuss our relationship before things went further. We worked together, after all, and it could be awkward on Monday if we didn’t set some ground rules. So I stopped him and said we needed to talk. 
He said, “Yes,” and then, “I love you.”
Needless to say, that wasn’t what I was expecting. I asked him how he could possibly love me when he didn’t know me. He said he didn’t need to know me. 
I said I was a difficult, complicated person. He said he didn’t care who I was. 
In retrospect, that admission should have bothered me more than it did. Instead it felt romantic and exotic and like something one didn’t say no to when one was in India for two months and trying to mend a broken heart.
A week later I started to have reservations. When I told him I wasn’t sure this was going to work out, he looked distraught, drew me to him and said, “Don’t leave me.” 
Given how little time we had spent together, I didn’t even realize I was in a position to leave him, but I couldn’t do so then. I put my arms around him and told him not to worry, that everything would be O.K.
And that’s how I ended up in a serious relationship with someone I barely knew, and who seemed to have little interest in really knowing me. And how I learned that love is not a universal language after all. It’s cultural and it’s specific.
In India, at least for my new boyfriend, love didn’t lead to commitment; love was commitment. It was a leap of faith made by two people to stick it out no matter what. 
From that first conversation in Agra, it seemed like a crazy approach to me. And yet there I was: 40, single, a string of broken relationships. The wait-and-see strategy wasn’t exactly panning out. I decided to try it his way for a change.
It was certainly more romantic, at least in the beginning. My Indian boyfriend fed me the loveliest lines, the ones only the heroines in movies get, that you never hear in real life. And though he may have borrowed every last one of them from Bollywood, or his pirated Hollywood DVDs, I think he meant them. 
That first night, for example, I told him I was probably too old to have children. He told me he didn’t care; families come in all shapes and sizes.
(A little cheesy, perhaps, but my last serious relationship had ended over the child issue. He claimed he wasn’t ready. I felt like I was running out of time. I loved him, so I waited, and waited, until it finally dawned on me that running out of time, for him, was the whole point.) 
So I admit it, I was moved. The next morning we woke at 5 a.m. to see the Taj Mahal, a universal symbol of everlasting love, in the first light of day. Two months later I returned to the United States, and four months after that, drawn by a job offer and my Indian boyfriend, I moved to Mumbai, where he soon joined me in an apartment I had rented. Little by little, we got to know each other. In India, had we married, we would have been able to tell people ours was a “love marriage” as opposed to an arranged one (it is a surprisingly common question). But other than not having been introduced by our parents, I saw little difference. 
Living with this practical stranger, I felt like a character in a Jhumpa Lahiri story, slowly getting to know the likes, dislikes, habits, and quirks of this man who was sharing my bed, bathroom and life practically from the word hello. 
But had it been a Jhumpa Lahiri story, the budding knowledge would have morphed over time into a mutual fondness, and, incrementally, into love. This didn’t happen to me. Instead, as time wore on, I became increasingly aware of how different we were. 
When I went back to New York for a visit and realized that all of my friends, even the relatively recent ones, understood me better than my boyfriend, I knew there was a problem. But every time I broached the issues in our relationship, he wouldn’t hear it. In his mind, we had made our choice, we had made a commitment to each other, and he wasn’t going to let my shallow Western desire for a shared sense of humor or common way of seeing the world tear that apart.
We started to fight a lot, and each time it came down to the same thing: Did we have enough in common? (That would be me.) Did it matter? (That would be him.) 
In the end, I always gave in. He made some good points. We had built a home together, one with pleasant routines and ample socializing. We got on with each other’s friends. We loved to travel and traveled well together. But more than anything he ever said, I think what made it so hard for me to leave was the sheer force of his commitment. 
In my whole life, nobody had ever fought so hard for me. It was unfortunate that the person doing so didn’t get my jokes or know what to say when I was down. 
On the other hand, to be able to do or say anything, no matter how horrible (and I was horrible — I said hateful things) and still be forgiven, and know I would be forgiven ... I had never felt so secure in a relationship. He didn’t get me, but no matter what, he would never let me go. 
Until he did. 
To be fair, I pushed him away. After two years in India, I moved back to the United States. My mother’s health had taken a bad turn, and I wanted to be with her. 
He wanted to come too, of course, but I needed time away. I couldn’t sort through my feelings while he stood in all his absolute certainty right next to me. It was too seductive and too confusing. So I left him in India, with vague protestations about needing to clear my head and figure things out and all manner of clichés that made absolutely no sense to him. 
He said O.K. (what choice did he have?), but as soon as I arrived home, he was calling and sending text -messages, wanting to know where we stood and when would I get my head cleared out and what was going on anyway?
With the distance, and back in my own cultural landscape, his determination came to feel more obsessive than romantic. I cut his calls short, refused to talk about our relationship. When he forced the discussion, I told him it wasn’t working. I started to contemplate other men, and fantasize about his meeting someone else, just so he would back down. 
I wanted it to be over. But on a deeper level, I must have believed that wasn’t an option and that he would be there no matter what I said or did. 
I guess in some way I was relying on that fact. Because when his e-mail arrived one morning saying he had met another woman and was ready to move on, I felt punched. 
Did I ever love my Indian boyfriend? I don’t know. I do know that I was smitten with his love for me. 
When Hurricane Sandy hit the Trump SoHo New York Hotel last year, the Fendi Casa furnishings in the rooms, the Taschen art books in the library and the Venetian plaster columns in the lobby all disappeared under the blanket of darkness that covered Lower Manhattan. 
So, too, did guests willing to pay more than $700 a night for the privilege of not being pampered in quite the style to which they had become accustomed.
The owners of the hotel filed a lawsuit on Thursday against their insurance company and Consolidated Edison, saying that the business lost $2.3 million during the four days that power was out and in reduced occupancy the next 10 days or so, and that the insurance company wrongly denied a claim on its business interruption policy.
The insurance company, Affiliated FM, denied the claim because a flood at Con Edison’s substation on 14th Street caused the power failure, and the business interruption policy does not cover losses caused by flooding, the insurer wrote the hotel’s owner.
The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, raises a different theory: that the bright, loud explosion at the plant caused the power to go out, and that the flood may or may not have caused the explosion.
“It takes issue with what I would call the official story of what happened on that night late last October,” said James J. McGuire, managing partner at Mishcon de Reya New York, the law firm representing the building’s owners. 
The suit also accuses Con Ed of acting negligently in not shutting down the substation sooner, as it did other substations. 
Con Ed has previously said that water from the East River poured into the substation with too little warning to take any preventive action. The company has opened a $1 billion program to buttress the system against future storms. 
Michael Clendenin, a spokesman for Con Ed, said the company had not yet seen the lawsuit but said there was no question that the substation flooded. 
A spokesman for Affiliated FM, a subsidiary of the large property insurance company FM Global, said the company had not yet seen the court papers and did not comment on legal matters. 
Loretta L. Worters, a spokeswoman for the Insurance Information Institute, an industry-financed group, said business-interruption policies did not typically cover loss of power caused by flooding.
Many smaller business owners are struggling with the same denials but do not have the resources for costly litigation, said Joseph D. Jean, a partner with the law firm of Lowenstein Sandler, which is not involved in the hotel’s lawsuit. He said he was helping about 30 restaurant and other owners pursue mediation. 
But the lawsuit filed by the owners of the hotel appears to be unique for its line of reasoning and for the opulence and name attached to the enterprise.
Donald J. Trump is not a named party in the lawsuit, but his surname appears in shiny letters above the door. Trump International Hotels Management manages the hotel under contract with the property’s owner, an entity formed by two real estate companies, the Sapir Organization and the Bayrock Group.
The 46-story glass tower is something of a hybrid of traditional hotels and condominiums. Studios have been listed starting at more than $1 million, but buyers can stay in their units only for 120 days a year, and for no more than 29 days during any 36-day period. When vacant, the units are rented out as hotel rooms.
The lawsuit says that the hotel began preparations as the storm approached, inviting essential employees to stay for the duration of the storm and buying flashlights, water and other emergency supplies. 
After power went out on the evening of Oct. 29, the hotel “attempted to charge standard room rates to all guests” through Nov. 2, according to the lawsuit, but it said the guests in 16 rooms refused to pay the average nightly rate of $718 and were given full refunds. Four banquet events had to be canceled, it said.
And even without the revenue, the hotel said it had to keep on staff, at a cost of $441,000.
CNN unveils its Sunday-night makeover this weekend, and if the goal was to look a little bit more like every other cable channel, then mission accomplished.
The process began in April with the premiere of “Anthony Bourdain: Parts Unknown,” essentially a continuation of Mr. Bourdain’s excellent Travel Channel series “No Reservations.” On Sunday two new shows arrive to fill out the prime-time lineup: “Crimes of the Century,” a nonfiction noir that would be at home on Investigation Discovery or A&E, and “Inside Man,” a lightweight documentary series that could fit on Sundance or HBO.
The cable mantra these days is something for everyone, as channels that once specialized in history, science, animals or the arts decide that they need a drama, a reality survival competition and maybe a fishing show, preferably set in a Southern swamp. CNN hasn’t added fiction or reality — yet — but it’s trying to be more than a 24-hour purveyor of news and punditry.
Perhaps realizing that its changes aren’t as attention-grabbing as a Bible mini-series or a new installment of “Real Housewives,” CNN is banking on name recognition. Mr. Bourdain was a proven quantity, and the new shows have some star power as well. “Crimes of the Century” lists the film director Ridley Scott as an executive producer, and “Inside Man” is the latest project from the itinerant documentarian Morgan Spurlock. 
In the case of “Crimes of the Century,” the association with Mr. Scott doesn’t look to be more than skin deep — the opening episode, a chronological recounting of the Washington Beltway sniper attacks, could have been produced by anyone with sufficient experience in cutting together news clips and talking-head interviews. (It’s not clear which century the title of the show is referring to — the sniper killings took place in 2002, but an opening montage refers to such 20th-century crimes as the shootings of John Lennon and Ronald Reagan and the Oklahoma City bombing.)
It’s competently done, and zips right along — the sniper case, which played out over 22 days in Maryland and Virginia, is a lot to cover in an hour. The presentation is less lurid than it would be in other places, including the broadcast networks, but it’s not noticeably more investigative or news-driven. If there’s anything unusual, it’s the time and weight given to the testimony of a panoply of law-enforcement officials versus that of a handful of reporters and eyewitnesses.
“Inside Man” is also smooth, inoffensive and more of the same — in this case, the same sort of thing Mr. Spurlock has done in earlier series like “30 Days” for FX and “A Day in the Life” for Hulu. The premise is that Mr. Spurlock, who is always the star of his shows, embeds himself in a new culture each week, beginning with the medical marijuana industry on Sunday.
In the course of the hour he enacts various roles — patient, deliveryman and salesman, at which he’s a natural — while his narration and a few simple graphics make a case for medical marijuana and criticize federal attempts to prosecute growers and sellers. 
It’s a facile version of muckraking, in which those who agree with Mr. Spurlock are given a platform and the camera is used to make them look sympathetic. A marijuana provider facing federal felony charges is shown blowing bubbles with his daughter while his wife tearfully decries the “gross miscarriage of justice” in his case.
There’s nothing particularly wrong with “Crime of the Century” or “Inside Man” but, at this point, nothing particularly interesting about them either. It’s noticeable that “Crimes of the Century” opens with a decade-old case that’s been well documented (seek out Barbara Kopple’s film “The D.C. Sniper’s Wife,” shown on TruTV in 2008) and “Inside Man” focuses on a business, the Harborside Health Center in Oakland, Calif., that was the subject of an entire series on Discovery in 2011. 
If you want to prove you’re not just a news channel, there’s probably a better way to do it than by peddling old news.
The warm and admiring relationship between Joseph J. Lhota and Anthony D. Weiner, rival candidates for mayor this year, has long been a paragon of bipartisan collegiality.
On Wednesday, it devolved into something less noble.
With Mr. Weiner, a Democrat, rising in a recent poll, Mr. Lhota, a Republican, delivered a series of unexpectedly acerbic digital attacks against him.
In an e-mail and Twitter message intended to excite potential Republican donors, Mr. Lhota accused Mr. Weiner of “padding his résumé with dubious claims,” “making up his own facts” and “squandering the trust of the public.”
“Like me, I’m sure that you had hoped to have seen the last of Anthony Weiner when he resigned from Congress following an illicit sexual Twitter scandal and botched cover up,” Mr. Lhota wrote in the e-mail, “but he’s back and desperate for political redemption.”
At a news conference, Mr. Weiner fired back, calling Mr. Lhota,formerly an aide to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and head of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, “a right-wing Republican” who wants “to have another Giuliani administration.”
Just about the only nice thing one had to say about the other was that they could end up facing off in the general election — no sure thing, since each faces a hotly contested primary. “This may be shaping up to be a contest between the two of us,” Mr. Weiner said.
It is an oddly impolite turn for two men who met during the Giuliani administration (Mr. Weiner was a City Council member, Mr. Lhota acity commissioner), spoke regularly through the years and have expressed mutual esteem.
Friendship can survive a lot, it seems. But not necessarily a political campaign.
Soon after the buffet of cold cuts and chicken salad is cleared, the matinee begins.
In a vanilla-hued office space high above Broadway in Midtown Manhattan, the players bang on tables, shush the chatter and stare one another down fiercely, all while cracking Neil Simonesque asides.
This is the Manhattan Bridge Club, the longest-running play on the West Side.
“I call it Bridge and a Show,” Lindsey Weinger, 35, said during a break in the game on a recent Tuesday afternoon. “If you want to compete, play online. You come here for the show.”
Brian and Flo Mahony certainly have their act down, a rare married couple who play as partners. “We met in prison,” Mr. Mahony, 76, deadpanned.
“We’re attached at the hip,” Ms. Mahony, also 76, added. They ran an employment service together, hiked the Himalayas three times. They are tennis partners. “We’ve been together over 50 years but only married 33,” she said.
“We didn’t want to rush into it,” Mr. Mahony explained. “Why ruin a good thing?”
The Manhattan Bridge Club, now in its 37th year (its 9th in its current location), follows the same adage. It advertises itself as the nation’s fifth-largest bridge club, playing host to 1,500 players a week, some coming multiple times for tournaments and classes. This club has no members, but players pay $25 for a three-hour weekday afternoon tournament, with lunch and brain food like Bugles, strudel, dried prunes and Oreos.
“It’s a beautiful summer day, and I wouldn’t want to be anywhere else,” Mark Hyman, 59, said as he finished lunch with club friends.
Mr. Hyman, from East Flatbush, Brooklyn, drove a taxi for most of his life, a job he loved, until his brother-in-law, he said, made him join the family’s kosher butcher business. That lasted four long years. “At least I composed songs about it,” Mr. Hyman said.
Then he learned bridge. He became an instructor on the Queen Elizabeth 2, and now teaches at the club. Mr. Hyman’s bridge partner for the last seven years is Ruth Fennessy Moss, who just finished writing a musical about Frederick Douglass. They won the open tournament that day.
The weekday crowd skews toward the retired and the flexibly scheduled: psychiatrists, civil engineers, lawyers, rabbis, boogie boarders and Peace Corps veterans. Evening games tend to draw a younger set.
On this Tuesday, though, many of the young players were off competing in Las Vegas, said Justin Blanchard, 24. Sotto voce, he confessed his mother was a champion player at the Honors Bridge Center across town.
Bridge clubs illustrate the great Manhattan divide. Jeff Bayone, a native of the Upper West Side who founded the club and now owns it with his wife, Barbara, said the beginners program sets his club apart.
Others see it differently. “The East Side one is all the fancy ladies with the face-lifts and the ‘whatever’ bags in style,” one woman said, begging for anonymity so as not to appear catty. “The West Side club, if you look around, there’s a lot of grungy people — but a lot of them are scientists and authors. There are a lot of personalities here.”
For some, the club has become a second family.
“I got pregnant here,” Lauren Carajohn, 43, said.
“It’s in the cards,” her partner, Mel Schoenfeld, 70, a psychiatrist, quipped.
Her fertility doctor advised her to quit her job as a trusts and estates lawyer and pick up a hobby. She got pregnant soon after she joined the club. In her sixth month, she passed out from dehydration during a tournament, and the director did something rare for her: he stopped the game.
Nicholas and Alexander, her twins, are 5 months old now. “I call them my Bridge Babies,” Ms. Carajohn said. She returned the minute she could.
“Everything happened here,” she said.
Laurie Frink, an accomplished trumpeter who became a brass instructor of widespread influence and high regard, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61. 
The cause was cancer of the bile duct, said the classical violist Lois Martin, her partner of 25 years.
Ms. Frink built her trumpet career as a section player, starting when few women were accepted in those ranks. She worked extensively on Broadway and with the Benny Goodman Orchestra, the Mel Lewis Orchestra and Gerry Mulligan’s Concert Jazz Band, often playing lead. 
“She was one of the most accurate trumpet players I’ve ever heard,” John McNeil, who recalled playing in trumpet sections alongside Ms. Frink some 40 years ago, said in an interview. 
Ms. Frink and Mr. McNeil wrote a book together, “Flexus: Trumpet Calisthenics for the Modern Improvisor,” which has become an essential resource for many trumpeters since its publication a decade ago. The book’s exercises and études came from Ms. Frink’s reservoir of strategies for addressing physical issues on the horn, especially where a player’s embouchure, or formation of lips and facial muscles, was concerned. 
“She would take each player and find out what was causing the problem — and then do it to herself, so she could figure out a solution,” said the celebrated trumpeter Dave Douglas, who sought out Ms. Frink when he ran into embouchure problems in the early 1990s. Meeting with her, Mr. Douglas recalled, “was like a combination of therapy, gym instruction and music lesson.” 
A warm but private person with a sharp wit, Ms. Frink earned the protective loyalty of her students. Some of the brass players she counseled — trombonists and others as well as trumpeters — were, like Mr. Douglas and Mr. McNeil, working professionals seeking to discreetly avert career-ending difficulties. 
But as a faculty member at several leading jazz conservatories, she also mentored many trumpeters at a more formative stage, including Ambrose Akinmusire and Nadje Noordhuis, who have since gained prominence in jazz circles. “I always encourage my students to be the square peg,” Ms. Frink said in 2011. “Sometimes it’s difficult for them, so I try to nurture that. They call me trumpet mother.” 
Laurie Ann Frink was born on Aug. 8, 1951, in Pender, Neb., a small town now claimed by the Omaha Indian Reservation, to James and Carol Frink. Her father was a candy salesman. In addition to Ms. Martin, she is survived by her brother, James. 
Ms. Frink studied with Dennis Schneider, the principal trumpeter with the Lincoln Symphony Orchestra, at the University of Nebraska. After moving to New York in her early 20s, she met Carmine Caruso, a brass guru who devised an adaptable set of calisthenic exercises for trumpet. 
Ms. Frink became Mr. Caruso’s protégée, and for more than a dozen years his romantic partner. He died in 1987. Her own style of instruction was an extension of the Caruso method.
Ms. Frink never stopped playing at a high level. She appears on every album by the Maria Schneider Orchestra, including two that won Grammy Awards. “When I wrote these subtle inner parts, I would always give them to her,” Ms. Schneider said. “I knew she was the person who would really spin the heart into the line.” 
Ms. Frink also worked in recent years with other critically acclaimed big bands, including the John Hollenbeck Large Ensemble, Darcy James Argue’s Secret Society and Ryan Truesdell’s Gil Evans Project. Her recorded work will endure, but for many of her former students her instruction is her chief legacy. “In a way it’s a very living art form,” Mr. Douglas said. “There are people all over town, and all over the world, doing what she told them to do.”
He said he practiced a routine of hers on Sunday morning after hearing the news of her death.
Carolyn Lynch, Mike Passell, Roger Bates, Garey Hayden, Marc Jacobus and Eddie Wold will be the USA-2 team in the d’Orsi Senior Trophy world championship in Bali, Indonesia, in September.
In the final 90-board on Friday and Saturday in Orlando, Fla., they defeated Rose Meltzer, John Mohan, Steve Beatty, Mark Cohen, Mark Feldman and Bill Pollack by 197 international match points to 163.
The diagramed deal was the favorite for the USA-2 Venice Cup team, Valerie Westheimer, Disa Eythorsdottir, Jill Levin and Jenny Wolpert, in its final match against Lynn Baker, Karen McCallum, Cindy Bernstein, Sally Wheeler, Pam Granovetter and JoAnna Stansby.
At the other table, after Wolpert (West) opened one spade, Wheeler (North) overcalled three spades, in principle showing a solid minor suit and stoppers in the other unbid suits, and asking partner to bid three no-trump with a spade stopper. She was taking the reasonable gamble that her club suit would be worth six tricks.
When Levin (East) raised to four spades, if Bernstein (South) had doubled, the contract would probably have gone down three, minus 800. But she converted to four no-trump.
West led the spade king and continued with a low spade to the ten and queen. Now South had to hope clubs were running. She played a diamond to dummy’s queen, then started the clubs. When they did not break, she ended down two, losing four spades and one club. 
In the given auction, Disa (South) might have bid four diamonds over three spades, which surely would have been natural, given her pass over two spades. Then North would probably have raised to five diamonds, reaching the one making game.
However, four hearts was not yet down.
Stansby (West) led the spade ace. Declarer ruffed in the dummy, cashed two top clubs (discarding a diamond) and continued with the club queen. Granovetter (East) ruffed with the heart ten, and South overruffed with her heart queen. Declarer led a diamond to dummy’s queen, cashed the diamond ace and called for the club ten. When East discarded a spade, South ruffed.
After a spade ruff in the dummy, South led the high club nine, East threw her last spade, declarer discarded her remaining diamond and West ruffed with the heart eight.
Everyone had four cards left. Dummy had the heart ace, two diamonds and one club. East held the K-J-6-2 of trumps. South retained two spades and the nine-four of hearts.
West led the diamond jack, and declarer, needing two tricks, claimed. She stated that East could ruff with the heart jack and return a heart to dummy’s ace, but either lead would then allow South to score her heart nine with a coup en passant. Beautifully done.
Plus 100 and plus 420 gave the Westheimer team 11 imps.
Did you notice that East missed a chance to defeat the contract? When the club ten was led from the dummy at Trick 7, she had to ruff specifically with her heart six.
CBS announced Thursday morning that it had completed a new retransmission deal with Verizon’s FiOS TV service, pointedly connecting the resolution to its dispute with Time Warner Cable.
Leslie Moonves, the CBS president, underscored the contrast in the negotiations in a memo he sent to CBS employees noting that the deal with FiOS was “reached swiftly and amicably in just a few days.” The battle with Time Warner Cable began Aug. 2 with no end in sight. CBS programs are blacked out in more than three million homes.
Coincidentally, the coverage areas for Time Warner Cable and FiOS overlap in this case. The major areas of FiOS covered under the new agreement are in the metropolitan regions of New York, Los Angeles and Dallas.
In his memo, Mr. Moonves made a point of emphasizing that this deal included only what are known as over-the-air rights — that is, permission to retransmit the signals of CBS stations in those areas. That means all of CBS’s programming would be available.
What it does not cover are digital rights to CBS programs, which are now at the heart of the stalled negotiations with Time Warner Cable. CBS wants to retain those rights, which include the ability to sell libraries of CBS programming to digital outlets like Netflix and Amazon. The cable company wants to gain access to those rights in any fee increase it pays CBS for retransmission rights.
FiOS actually has slightly more subscribers in the covered areas than Time Warner Cable, about 3.5 million compared with 3.2 million. One difference with the FiOS negotiation is that it did not include CBS’s sister premium cable channel, Showtime.
No financial terms were disclosed, though a CBS executive aware of the terms said that the deal included a substantial increase for CBS. In his memo, Mr. Moonves said CBS achieved “fair value.”
The negotiations with FiOS were conducted quietly and early — the previous deal was not set to conclude until the end of the year.
FiOS could play another role in the dispute with Time Warner Cable, besides being a flag that CBS will wave to underscore its ability to make agreements with other distributors. FiOS is generally available as an alternative to subscribers affected by the blackout of CBS stations on Time Warner Cable.
The New York State attorney general’s office filed a civil lawsuit on Saturday accusing Trump University, Donald J. Trump’s for-profit investment school, of engaging in illegal business practices. 
The lawsuit, which seeks restitution of at least $40 million, accused Mr. Trump, the Trump Organization and others involved with the school of running it as an unlicensed educational institution from 2005 to 2011 and making false claims about its classes in what was described as “an elaborate bait-and-switch.” 
In a statement, Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general, said Mr. Trump appeared in advertisements for the school making “false promises” to persuade more than 5,000 people around the country — including 600 New Yorkers — “to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn’t afford for lessons they never got.”
The advertisements claimed, for instance, that Mr. Trump had handpicked instructors to teach students “a systematic method for investing in real estate.” But according to the lawsuit, Mr. Trump had not chosen even a single instructor at the school and had not created the curriculums for any of its courses.
“No one, no matter how rich or famous they are, has a right to scam hardworking New Yorkers,” Mr. Schneiderman said in the statement. “Anyone who does should expect to be held accountable.”
The inquiry into Trump University came to light in May 2011 after dozens of people had complained to the authorities in New York, Texas, Florida and Illinois about the institution, which attracted prospective students with the promise of a free 90-minute seminar about real estate investing that, according to the lawsuit, “served as a sales pitch for a three-day seminar costing $1,495.” This three-day seminar was itself “an upsell,” the lawsuit said, for increasingly costly “Trump Elite” packages that included so-called personal mentorship programs at $35,000 a course.
On Saturday evening, Michael Cohen, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, denied the accusations in the lawsuit and said the school had received 11,000 evaluations, 98 percent of which rated students as “extremely satisfied.” 
George Sorial, another lawyer for Mr. Trump, called the lawsuit politically motivated. He said that Mr. Schneiderman had asked Mr. Trump and his family for campaign contributions and grew angry when denied. 
“This is tantamount to extortion,” Mr. Sorial said.
Andrew Friedman, a spokesman for the attorney general’s office, said that although Mr. Schneiderman had accepted a contribution from Mr. Trump in the past, “the fact that he’s still brave enough to follow the investigation wherever it may lead speaks to Mr. Schneiderman’s character.” 
Apparently there is nothing Donald Trump likes better than a good shouting match, even when it involves a lawsuit accusing him of fraud. 
On Saturday, New York’s Attorney General, Eric Schneiderman, filed a civil lawsuit accusing Mr. Trump and his profit-making investment “university” of engaging in “persistent fraudulent, illegal and deceptive conduct.”  The suit seeks restitution of at least $40 million for the 5,000 people across the country (including 600 New Yorkers) who were coaxed into “paying for a series of expensive courses that did not deliver on their promises,” according to Mr. Schneiderman’s statement.
Mr. Trump, of course, has not taken such accusations quietly. His organization quickly set up a Web site to blast Mr. Schneiderman for wasting taxpayer money and “conducting a no-holds-barred, scorched-earth investigation.” On television shows Monday morning, Mr. Trump claimed that students were 98 percent satisfied with the program. He also accused Mr. Schneiderman of being “a political hack looking to get publicity.” 
The lawsuit accuses Mr. Trump and his organization of operating an unlicensed educational institution in New York from 2005 to 2011. Calling itself Trump University until May 2010, the operation did not have the license necessary under state law. 
The suit charges that students were lured by free sessions, then offered packages ranging from $10,000 to $35,000 for sham courses that were supposed to teach them how to become successful real estate investors. Some, hoping to get advice directly from the man himself, were sorely disappointed. At one seminar, participants were told they would get to have their pictures taken with Mr. Trump; it ended up being with a cardboard cutout. 
Mr. Schneiderman’s suit offers compelling evidence of a bait-and-switch scheme. Mr. Trump vowed that his Midas touch could be learned quickly. As one advertisement said, “Just copy exactly what I’ve done and get rich.” For too many people, that was a false promise. 
Ivanka Trump has quietly carved out a niche in the fashion industry that nobody seemed to want after we tossed out our shoulder pads: professional attire.
This year, her brand will do nearly $250 million at retail. An expanded apparel line arrives this month in stores like Macy’s and Nordstrom, with prices for chic office dresses in the $140 range. That may seem a contrast for a woman whose main job is landing mega-deals for the family firm, the Trump Organization. (Her current projects include the Doral resort in Miami and the development of the Old Post Office building in Washington.) 
But, as in all things Trump, there is synergy. Married to the real estate developer Jared Kushner, and expecting their second child in October, Ms. Trump, 31, gave a glimpse into how her world works. Here is an edited version of that conversation.
Q. REAL ESTATE, LIKE BANKING, IS STILL CONSERVATIVE IN DRESS, BUT WHAT CHANGES ARE YOU SEEING AMONG YOUNG WOMEN?
 
A. They want a practicality that isn’t fussy. That said, we are more comfortable expressing our individuality than in any generation past. I think of my mother in the ’80s, wearing a power suit. That was pure assimilation. I was a less extreme version of that in my first job, in 2004, at a real estate company in Brooklyn. I think for the first year I wore a black Theory suit.
Today, even in the most corporate setting, the suit has become less relevant. Among female lawyers and bankers, it isn’t a matchy-matchy top and bottom. It’s evolved to separates, or dresses. There’s pink. In meetings, I’ll see trends like neon and leather.
I think there are not many fashion companies speaking to that woman. I would never profess to compete with the great masters, and I don’t want to. I want to offer something different. I get very excited when I see chic young girls walking down the street in my pumps, and they haven’t spent $600. In clothing, it’s hard to find something that has any fashion sensibility that isn’t egregiously overpriced. That’s where my entrepreneurial side says, “Here’s an opportunity.” It’s not competing for a small piece of market share at the top, with much more limited distribution.
YOU STARTED WITH FINE JEWELRY. HOW DID THAT COME ABOUT?
 
It was purely serendipitous. My jewelry partner showed me a real estate deal that we ended up passing on, but we just started talking about the industry. He’s Tiffany’s largest wholesaler of stones. He was thinking a lot about retail. This was around 2007.
There are not a lot of companies speaking to the self-purchasing female. The environment in my store is very feminine — and that’s contrary to Fifth Avenue. You walk into these stone mausoleums with guards at the front door that try to bully you into a point of sale. And it’s totally passé now. People are not going to be bullied. They’re going to go online and do some research.
BUT JEWELRY IS A SPECIAL SKILL. HOW DID YOU DEAL WITH YOUR LACK OF KNOWLEDGE?
 
I’m very open about it. One of the pitfalls I see — and it was true of myself — is that young people are afraid their questions will indicate they lack a level of knowledge. But everyone knows that already. So if you ask intelligent questions, not what you can Google, then that’s a good sign.
YOUR SHOES TOOK OFF QUICKLY, IN PART BECAUSE OF PRICE. [THE AVERAGE IS $140.] THE STYLING IS ALSO NOT CUTTING EDGE.
 
One thing I noticed was that at the more accessible price points, there was almost a patronizing separation between over-the-top styles and dowdy. There was nothing that was refined and understated. You know, as prices become lower, it becomes about the bling: toss a rhinestone on it. I don’t think that’s what the customer wants.
HOW DO YOU RELATE YOUR FASHION BRAND TO YOUR OTHER ACTIVITIES AND THE TRUMP BRAND?
 
I spend my day opening hotels in key cities around the world and selling ultraluxury condominiums. I don’t want to do anything that dilutes or cheapens that effort. The nice thing about the things I’m involved in is that they’re all complementary. We’re a family company. We’re a family brand. For me, at the ribbon-cutting of a hotel that I’ve been working on in Beijing for five years, wearing Ivanka Trump — that’s an image you can’t fake create. I made a specific choice not to call my collection Ivanka. There’s so much value in the Trump name. And there’s such a deep connection to luxury and success. So when we think about the hot markets around the world, in Brazil and China, that’s what resonates with those buyers.
My goal is that product can be an entry point to our brand, a young woman who maybe buys a membership with her husband 10 years later at our golf course, or is staying at our hotels. There are so many points of connection, and fashion can be one of those first points. I’m very focused on social media and e-commerce. I think there’s so much interesting stuff that I can’t do within the context of a free-standing store. I mean, I could have booking widgets to our hotels. There’s just so much cross. 
HOW DO YOU MANAGE THE LIFE/WORK BALANCE?
 
I hate even the concept of life/work balance. Of course you strive for it, but you can’t plan for it. A deal comes up and you need to get it closed in two weeks. Well, there goes your balance. Or your child gets sick. I think it’s a very linear way to think. You sort of have to seize the moment a bit more than achieving a perfect balance.
I try to be fully ready for the day before my daughter, Arabella, wakes up, at 6:30 or 7. We play and then we have breakfast as a family. To me, the anchors of the day are the times I spend with her. I struggled with this for the first five months, about leaving the office early. I mean, I didn’t know how to do that. I used to stay until 8 p.m. or 9. Now I leave at 6:30. Having a child just makes you incredibly efficient — like nothing else!
In the evenings, I read to her, give her a bath and put her to bed. Then I go back to work or I go out to dinner with my husband. We go to events very selectively. It’s less our thing. It’s usually small dinners. On Fridays, we’re at home. I cook. That’s our time.
We have very little free time, so it’s nice we don’t have to compromise too much. If he’s at a work-related dinner, oftentimes there are bankers who could be interested in our projects, so there’s a lot of synergy. At night we talk about deals.
PEOPLE WILL SAY YOU’VE HAD ADVANTAGES BECAUSE OF YOUR DAD.
 
I think time has debunked some of the criticisms that people could throw at me. There will always be people who will say I wouldn’t be in this position were it not for my last name, and I don’t disagree with them. Truthfully, it would be a futile argument because they very well may be right. But I also know that I could be doing a lot less.
Donald J. Trump promised Tuesday to turn a landmark into a top luxury hotel. Mr. Trump said at a news conference in Washington that “cost is no object” in his restoration of the 1890s-era Old Post Office Building on Pennsylvania Avenue. When the $200 million project is completed, the hotel will have about 270 guest rooms, each with a crystal chandelier. The General Services Administration chose Mr. Trump to turn the building — one of the tallest structures in Washington, at 307 feet — into a luxury hotel in February 2012. Construction is to begin next spring, and the opening set for 2016. 
It’s hard to imagine that a work consisting of 52 trumpets could be a “chamber” version of anything, but Henry Brant’s imagination was large scale. He originally wrote “Flight Over a Global Map” for 100 trumpets, one of several works — including “Orbits” for 80 trombones, soprano and organ — that he composed for vast brass or wind forces. 
“I don’t think you’ll miss the other 48 trumpets,” said the composer Neely Bruce, who conducted the arrangement for 52 trumpets and percussion at Roulette on Wednesday. The performance was part of the Festival of New Trumpet Music, whose theme this year is “Music for Small, Medium and Massive: Premieres, Fanfares and Remembrance,” an apt title for a Sept. 11 concert. 
Brant, who died in 2008, took inspiration from Charles Ives, who in works like his giant Fourth Symphony juxtaposed various ensembles playing different music simultaneously. Brant wrote spatial works of unusual sonorities with detailed instructions specifying where performers should be situated in a hall. On Wednesday, legions of trumpeters filled Roulette, placed onstage, to the sides and in the balconies for “Flight Over a Global Map.” 
And they made a mighty sound. Initially, a polite dialogue unfolded between trumpet and percussion, whose glissandos and flourishes underpinned the gentle interjections from the balcony. Then chaos erupted, the frenzied, undulating layers of sound evoking rival avian flocks in heated airborne battle. 
A chattering, frenzied bout of almost ear-shattering intensity was followed by a mournful interlude of relative calm. After an insistent drum roll intersected with a chorale and cheery contributions from a group at the side, the remarkable piece ended on an enigmatic note. 
The tribute to Butch Morris, the jazz musician who died in January, proved far less engaging. Morris created a method of large-ensemble music making that he described as “conduction” — meaning conducted improvisation, which he shaped with specific hand gestures and signals.
J. A. Deane — known as Dino — led a group here that included brass, guitar, percussion and electronics. Using a range of baton and hand motions, Mr. Deane guided the musicians to particular phrases or rhythmic ideas, at one point clasping his hands behind his back and letting the music take its course. But apart from a few ear-catching moments, the lengthy conductions felt stilted and awkward. 
The program opened with a tribute to the 60th birthday of John Zorn, feted citywide this season with a multitude of celebrations. In his striking “Antiphonal Fanfare for the Great Hall,” six trumpets were placed in the balconies, unleashing a torrent of sounds that culminated in a moment of wild euphoria. 
BOSTON — Two white men of Irish descent topped the balloting on Tuesday in the crowded race for mayor of Boston, dashing the hopes of many that this would be the year an African-American woman might have a shot at the top job in City Hall.
State Representative Martin J. Walsh, who had strong backing from labor, and City Councilor John R. Connolly, who made education his signature issue, led the field of 12 candidates. They will face off on Nov. 5.
With almost all precincts reporting, Mr. Walsh led with 19 percent of the vote; Mr. Connolly was second with 17 percent.
Their success guarantees that the city will again have a male Irish-American mayor, a lineage that the current mayor, Thomas M. Menino, an Italian-American, only interrupted; he was the city’s first non-Irish mayor elected since 1930.
This was the first open mayor’s race in Boston in a generation, and five of the candidates were African-Americans and one was Latino. Charlotte Golar Richie, an African-American who came in third, was unable to capitalize on her distinction as the only woman in the race.
“This has to be regarded by many as a disappointment,” said Paul Watanabe, a political scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. “The ‘new Boston’ is based on the fact that this has become a majority-minority city,” he said, with 53 percent of the population identifying as something other than non-Hispanic white.
“One of the tests of the ‘new Boston’ is not only in the numbers but in whether the political leadership, the face of that leadership, can match that diversity,” he said.
Boston has a troubling racial history stemming from its fierce opposition to court-ordered busing in the 1970s to desegregate the city schools. Of the nation’s 25 biggest cities, it is one of only two in the North that have never elected a nonwhite mayor (Indianapolis is the other).
Many voters said in interviews on Tuesday that they found the crowded field a bit bewildering and chose the candidate they knew best. Mike Feloney, 48, who has a son in the Boston public schools, said he was supporting Mr. Connolly. 
“I know John best out of the mayoral candidates, and I’ve found him to be a very thoughtful person,” Mr. Feloney said, and he liked his education agenda. “The potential to have a person of color, a woman of color, is an exceptional opportunity,” he said, but he finally decided that none of them could win.
Barbara Kasselmann, 76, a freelance writer, chose Mr. Walsh. “I like him,” she said. “He’s in the neighborhood, and he’s always called back when I’ve called with concerns.”
Some voters said that having multiple candidates complicated the process. 
“It was a really hard decision,” said Deborah Kershner, 39, an environmental education teacher from Jamaica Plain. “I thought they were all qualified and had not dissimilar views. I honestly didn’t know who I was going to vote for until I got here.”
She chose Ms. Golar Richie, who, she said, represented “a different constituency from the standard old politicians.” She said Boston’s history was steeped in the “old boy network,” though she noted that many of those old boys, like Mayor Menino, had been pretty good.
This was the first election in decades in which Mr. Menino’s name was not on the ballot. The city’s longest-serving mayor, he has had health problems and chose not to seek a sixth term.
Jazz regionalism isn’t what it used to be. In an age of instant, endless connectedness, there are fewer compelling reasons for a scene to develop in isolation. Whether you choose to mourn or celebrate that fact, one thing it highlights is the rare intrinsic value of someone like the trumpeter Marcus Belgrave, who received an award of recognition from the Festival of New Trumpet Music at the Jazz Standard on Tuesday night. 
Mr. Belgrave, 77, is a figure of peerless veneration in Detroit, his longtime home, where he has variously served as a staff trumpeter for Motown Records, a trusted purveyor of hard-bop verities and a hands-on mentor and educator to several generations of jazz musicians. Five years ago, he was named the city’s Jazz Master Laureate, a title he wears proudly.
For the first of two nights that concluded the Festival of New Trumpet Music — a monthlong convocation founded a decade ago by the trumpeter Dave Douglas, with a preference for boundary-pushing works — Mr. Belgrave presided over a coterie of former students. “You’re witnessing and experiencing my family, my big family,” he said during his first set, his voice a growly rasp but his face bearing a beatific smile. 
He had been booked with a quartet featuring the pianist Geri Allen, the bassist Marion Hayden and the drummer Kassa Overall. Joining them for portions of the set were two players Mr. Belgrave had taught at the Oberlin Conservatory of Music, before retiring several years ago: Greg Glassman, a trumpeter, and Arnold Lee, a saxophonist. One tune, “Working Together,” featured a pair of prepossessing young siblings, the pianist Samora Pinderhughes and the flutist Elena Pinderhughes, whom Mr. Belgrave had encountered as a guest instructor in the Bay Area.
There was no new trumpet music in the set, which Mr. Belgrave devoted almost entirely to compositions by Lawrence Williams, a drummer revered in Detroit, who died in 2006. (“Working Together” is the title track of an album the two made together in 1992.) Mr. Williams had a taste for soulful post-bop with subtle but non-negotiable twists, and at least one of these tunes, “No. 6,” proved a bumpy ride for the band. 
But “No. 3,” the polyrhythmic waltz that opened the set, was punchy and effective, especially during a harmonically slithery piano solo by Ms. Allen. “No. 4,” with its impressionistic prelude, was even stronger, the spiky intervals in its melody eliciting a lustrous gleam from Mr. Belgrave’s horn.
His playing throughout the set was unflashy but full of insight, with a logical sense of phrase that occasionally evoked Clifford Brown. He doesn’t have the mobility around his register that he did as a younger trumpeter, but his marshaling of notes pointed to a deep engagement with the material. And by spending his shining hour heralding Mr. Williams’s music, he showed his selfless dedication: to the spirit of instruction, to the memory of a former colleague and especially to the proprietary claims of his hometown.
WASHINGTON — I’d heard about a medical malady you can get from watching too much cable news. You start feeling jittery and apprehensive about the future. 
But I’d never experienced it until a recent night, when I had to turn off the rant-around-the-clock shows reporting on political vandals vitiating the good name of a country they claim to love, scrapping in the weeds over nothing while dancing on the precipice of an international financial collapse.
I flipped around and paused at ABC’s “Scandal.”
I’d never gotten into “Scandal” because it seemed too outlandishly over-the-top, a silly sex-and-murder-fueled Washington soap opera.
Shonda Rhimes took the story of Judy Smith, a deputy press secretary for Poppy Bush who became a crisis manager, and melded it with the story of Smith’s most famous client, Monica Lewinsky. Rhimes, who became wealthy by never underestimating the appetite of the American public for devilish, dervish plots, cut out the middleman — or middlewoman — and made the crisis manager the president’s mistress. 
I was about to keep flipping when I saw something soothing on “Scandal” that I had not seen in Washington in eons: acidic adversaries working together on a seeming Gordian knot and quickly settling on a compromise. Suddenly, compared with the incredible, insane, illogical cliffhangers in the actual D.C., the ones in Rhimes’s D.C. seem quite credible. 
Kerry Washington’s Olivia Pope, unmasked by The Washington Post at the end of last season as the president’s girlfriend, opens her safe and takes out a folder with a code. 
“The most infamous woman in America,” as she’s known, uses the “fire-alarm” password that her commander-in-chief lover had given her in case of a terrorist, chemical or nuclear attack. With that code, she’s able to lure President Fitzgerald Grant and the first lady, Mellie, into the White House bunker. Once the unholy trinity is gathered, Olivia, wearing a killer white Burberry trench coat that signals her pursuit of “white hat” justice, demands that they hammer out a deal to save their reputations.
“We have a job to do here, and in order for me to do my part effectively,” Olivia icily tells the manipulative Mellie, “I’m going to need you to refrain from referring to me as a whore — at least in front of my face.”
That’s the kind of dialogue I used to find irritatingly purple. But, suddenly, it sounded refreshingly sensible.
Why hadn’t President Obama used a pretext to lure John Boehner, Ted Cruz and Harry Reid to the White House, locked them in a bunker and kept them there until they hammered out a deal to save America’s reputation?
If Olivia can trust her president, who killed a Supreme Court justice and sicced a military officer to spy on her, and he can trust her, after she rigged voting machines to get him elected, surely the real players here can summon up some trust. 
We now find ourselves plunged into a surreal, sensationalized, sordid world where a demonstrator waves a Confederate flag at the White House and Larry Klayman tells President Obama “to put the Koran down”; where Ted Cruz and Sarah Palin, after goading Tea Party pols to close down the government, go to a rally at the World War II memorial to express outrage that the government is closed down.
Ignoring the fact that it’s her beloved Tea Party dragging the country to ruin, Palin suggested on Facebook that if the country defaults on its debt, Obama is risking impeachment.
House Republicans sang “Amazing Grace” at the start of their Tuesday kamikaze meeting, but they’re amazing only for their lack of grace.
Senator David Vitter, a Louisiana Republican who survived a hooker scandal, came up with an atrocious plan to squeeze Capitol Hill staffers — who are often working hard for petty tyrants — and make them pay the full cost of their health care premiums, which few big companies do.
One resentful House Republican staffer e-mailed The New Yorker’s Ryan Lizza about the proposed Vitter amendment: “If they hate Congress,” he said of the public, “imagine working for it.” 
Compared with our implausible theater of the absurd, it seems quite plausible to see President Grant slugging back Scotch in the Oval Office and chatting with his evangelical vice president about her cheating husband.
Liv Pope is appealingly relentless and brass-knuckled compared to President Obama. Her mantras are, after all, “It’s handled,” and “I’m never out of options.”
David Axelrod admitted to The Boston Globe’s Matt Viser that the Obama team should have involved Obama more in interacting with Capitol Hill from the beginning, so the aloof president who breezed through the Senate could learn how the velvet-and-vise game is played. Instead, negotiating with the Hill was outsourced to Rahm Emanuel, who makes Pope seem like a defeatist.
“If I rethink it,” Axelrod said, “maybe we were too reliant on Rahm and should have engaged the president more in those early months and years.” 
When the ship of state turns into the ship of fools, we all sink. 
Last week, I wrote about Bill de Blasio’s victory in the Democratic mayoral primary in New York, and mentioned that exit polls showed that his support was “consistently high among all income groups.”
But the top income category in the exit poll, conducted by Edison Research, was made up of voters in households that earn $100,000 or more, which is too blunt a measure for a city with at least 389,100 millionaires, 2,929 multimillionaires and 70 billionaires.
Howard Rosenthal, a political scientist at N.Y.U., wrote to me pointing out that the Times’s own detailed map of precinct results shows a more complex and interesting pattern.
“Just looking at voters over $100K misses something. $100K is zilch in Manhattan,” Rosenthal observed. Christine Quinn, the city council speaker, “basically carried all the precincts bordering Central Park East, South and West” – some of the richest precincts in the city.
It turns out that Rosenthal’s point is well taken. Democratic politics in New York City — a cauldron of self-destructive ethnic and gender conflicts for the past 20 years — may be on the cutting edge of a post-racial politics.
The Times compiled a set of data more detailed than that provided by the exit polls, data that showed both actual precinct results and household income levels. The first map using this data, Figure 1, shows Manhattan winners by precinct or election district with de Blasio in blue and Quinn in beige. Quinn’s success in precincts on three sides of Central Park is striking.
The second map, Figure 2, focuses on central Manhattan election districts with median annual household incomes of more than $215,000. Quinn beat de Blasio in these districts – the most affluent in the city, many of them clustered on the Upper East Side.
The pattern is fixed. If you look at the outcome in other distinct areas – upscale Manhattan Assembly districts – you see the same pattern of precinct-level voting. Quinn decisively carried the 73rd Assembly District, one of Manhattan’s most affluent East Side neighborhoods, 6,031 to de Blasio’s 4,360 and to William C. Thompson Jr.’s 3,513.
Quinn came in a very close second in the 67th Assembly District, which covers a good chunk of the Upper West Side — 8,472 votes, 35 short of de Blasio’s 8,507.
While there are clear dangers in over-interpreting primary results — turnout in September was a dismal 691,801, just 22 percent of registered Democrats — the Democratic primary electorate, small as it was, determined who would wield executive power for the next four years.
I asked Howard Graubard, a political blogger who writes under the name Gatemouth, for his take on the election, and he emailed back, “it is safe to say that Quinn’s base was among the highest income voters.” This was apparent not only in Manhattan, but also in affluent sections of other boroughs, including “coastal brownstone Brooklyn, Park Slope and Forest Hills.”
One of the most interesting conclusions that can be drawn from the primary results was that class trumped race, gender and sexual identity, all factors that have played strong roles in recent Democratic contests.
“Any racial vote for Thompson simply disappeared,” N.Y.U.’s Rosenthal noted. “Gender and sexual orientation were of at best marginal benefit to Quinn. So I think the election was largely about redistribution,” Rosenthal said.
Rosenthal suggested that the differences in voting based on income point to internal party conflicts between what could be called the investment banker wing of the party and its less affluent counterpart, what Rosenthal calls “the tension between Steve Rattner and Citigroup (Robert Rubin, Peter Orszag, Jack Lew) Democrats and the mass of voters.” The outcome, in Rosenthal’s view, was “a repudiation of the money wing of the Democratic Party.”
Nolan McCarty, a political scientist at Princeton who wrote the book “Polarized America: The Dance of Ideology and Unequal Riches” with Rosenthal and Keith Poole of the University of Georgia, said that their research has shown that:
In a roundabout fashion, the Rev. Al Sharpton, a fixture in the politics of race, made the same point in the immediate aftermath of the primary: 
Interested in exploring the startling notion that New York City Democratic politics would become a mainspring of post-racial, post-gender politics, I sought out Seth Barron, an acute observer of the intricacies of city politics, who blogs at CityCouncilWatch.
“Quinn’s stronghold was the silk stocking district,” Barron wrote:
Barron, noting the complexities of class and voting in contemporary New York City, suggested that one of de Blasio’s strengths is his ability to combine the characteristics of both a populist and a patrician:
De Blasio’s strong opposition to the police department’s stop-and-frisk practices served to bridge his ties between affluent liberal elites, opposed to the policy on civil liberties grounds, and less affluent minority voters, opposed to stop-and-frisk because under the invasive program they were singled out.
The class divisions in the primary are almost certain to reappear with renewed intensity next week on Election Day. But there are not enough votes in the city’s economic elite to elect a mayor, even when you open up the election to include all the independents and Republicans. In the primary, economically elite voters helped propel Quinn to a paltry 108,893 votes, 71,948 fewer than Thompson’s 180,841 and 173,451 fewer than de Blasio’s 282,344.
On Tuesday, Joe Lhota will not be able to depend on the support of these very upscale Democrats, and even if they were to defect en masse to the Republicans, there are not enough of them to put Lhota over the top and into Gracie Mansion.
At the moment, Lhota is running 43.5 points behind de Blasio, 66.8 to 23.3, according to the RealClearPolitics average of the four most recent surveys.
The more important long-range question is twofold. First, has the city’s Democratic Party regained the capacity to compete for the mayor’s office or is the de Blasio campaign a fluke, setting the stage for future divisive Democratic primaries that open the door to Republicans and independents? Second, can a mayor committed to the redistribution policies de Blasio outlined in his campaign, policies that cannot be financed with a tax hike on the super wealthy alone, hold his coalition together?
Let’s assume for the moment that de Blasio can win approval in the City Council, the State Legislature and the governor’s office for at least some of his initiatives. If that happens, many of the constituencies who are currently supporting him — voters whose own incomes, while not spectacular, are well above the city median, like municipal employees, local property owners, small business owners and teachers — will start having to bear more of the economic burden of supporting voters whose incomes fall below the median. That will be the real test of the strength of the city’s new liberal politics.
DALLAS — When the executive director of former President George W. Bush’s public policy institute decided to move on recently, he stopped by for an exit interview. Mr. Bush asked if he had anything in particular he wanted to talk about.
Nothing specific, said James K. Glassman, the departing director.
“O.K.,” Mr. Bush replied, “I want to talk about painting.”
After early self-portraits in the shower and then dozens of paintings of dogs and cats, Mr. Bush, it seems, has now moved on to world leaders. He told Mr. Glassman that he wanted to produce portraits of 19 foreign presidents and prime ministers he worked with during his time in the White House.
Nearly five years after leaving office, the nation’s 43rd president lives a life of self-imposed exile in Texas, more interested in painting than politics, recovering from a heart scare, privately worried about the rise of the Tea Party, golfing with fervor, bicycling with wounded veterans and enjoying a modest revival in public opinion. While Bill Clinton criticizes Republicans on the campaign trail and Dick Cheney chastises the current administration on his book tour, Mr. Bush resolutely stays out of the public debate.
That his voice remains silent may be all the more striking given how much he seems at the center of the debate anyway. Some of the issues dominating Washington trace their roots to his time in power, including whether to use force to counter nuclear, biological and chemical weapons in the Middle East and how to find the right balance between security and privacy when it comes to the surveillance state.
When the rollout of the federal health care exchange was botched, some looked to Mr. Bush’s expansion of Medicare for lessons. When President Obama vowed to fix it, he promised a “tech surge,” echoing the language used for Mr. Bush’s second-term troop buildup in Iraq. And when Mr. Obama pushes lawmakers to overhaul the immigration system, he makes a point of noting that his predecessor supported it too.
But Mr. Bush seems to miss none of it. “He’s moved on,” said Mark K. Updegrove, the director of the Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential Library, who has been interviewing him for a book on the two Bush presidents. “He’s comfortable with the decisions he made. He doesn’t obsess about his place in history.”
Mr. Bush is not completely removed from public policy. His institute promotes free-market economics, global health, democratic reform and other causes. He travels to Africa as part of a program fighting cervical cancer. He broke his silence recently to advocate immigration legislation, in effect bolstering Mr. Obama. Behind closed doors, he made a surprise keynote address to Jewish organizations, where attendees said he urged skepticism of Iran’s recent outreach, in effect warning Mr. Obama.
In private, Mr. Bush expresses disappointment in Mr. Obama’s performance, although he would never say so publicly. And he views with concern the growing influence of the Tea Party, which is a rebellion against him as well as Mr. Obama. His brand of “compassionate conservatism” — increasing the federal role in education, expanding Medicare coverage and providing a path for illegal immigrants — is anathema to many new Republican Party activists.
But Mr. Bush is most worried about what he sees as a growing isolationism, a retreat from the tough-minded national security policies and assertive American role in the world that he championed. “That’s his main concern about the Tea Party,” Mr. Glassman said. In that vein, Mr. Bush contributed $5,000 to Senator Lindsey Graham, a hawkish South Carolina Republican who is facing a challenge from the right.
His main passions these days, though, are elsewhere. Mr. Bush, who is 67, spent Halloween with his new granddaughter, who was dressed as an astronaut. He has a regular seat near the dugout at Texas Rangers games and gave the coin toss at a recent Southern Methodist University football game. He hosted a charity golf tournament, and after having a stent inserted to open a clogged artery, he is back on his bicycle.
“I would sum it up as library work, speeches, painting, golfing and mountain-bike riding,” said Mark McKinnon, a friend and former political consultant. “The most consistent characteristic about President Bush is that he truly loves and relishes life.”
After giving up golf while in office out of deference to troops at war, Mr. Bush has taken it up again. He sometimes plays with the first few people who happen to show up at courses like the Brook Hollow Golf Club or the Las Colinas Country Club, and he built a putting green at home. “He’s a golf-aholic now,” said his friend Charlie Younger.
Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, moved to Dallas in 2009, exhausted by eight years of crises. They bought a relatively simple house in the Preston Hollow area and renovated it. Upstairs the former president has what a friend called “his man cave,” an office with mementos and pictures from his time in power.
It took a while to decompress. “Laura told me she didn’t realize how stressed she was until she got back here,” said Pamela Nelson, a longtime Dallas friend.
But they adjusted and express little nostalgia for Washington. “I’ve never seen a happier, more relaxed man than George W. Bush since he left the presidency,” said Wayne Berman, a friend and fund-raiser.
Mr. Bush has become part of the Dallas firmament again, a regular at restaurants around town and host of barbecues at home. He helped raise a reported $1.2 million for the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. He is expected to attend a Dallas event on Monday honoring the columnist and Fox News commentator Charles Krauthammer. “Clinton is a citizen of the world,” said a friend, “and Bush is a citizen of Dallas.”
That is not to say that Mr. Bush does not revisit the consequential days in the White House. From time to time, there are revealing moments, friends say.
“You’re leaving as one of the most unpopular presidents ever,” a former aide noted during a visit to Dallas shortly after Mr. Bush’s return. “How does that feel?”
Mr. Bush pushed back: “I was also the most popular president.”
Today, Mr. Bush finds himself somewhere in the middle. A Gallup survey found that 49 percent of Americans viewed him favorably, compared with 46 percent who saw him unfavorably, hardly as high as Mr. Clinton or Ronald Reagan but the first positive balance in eight years.
That reflects a return to the fold by some conservatives who see Mr. Bush more positively than Mr. Obama and perhaps a softening by some moderates and liberals who see him more positively than Tea Party Republicans. Former Bush aides seem less defensive today because Mr. Obama adopted much of his predecessor’s security policies and because the current president has had his own troubles.
“There’s now more appreciation and even some nostalgia for his resolve, the clarity of his convictions; things that were sometimes seen as liability when he was in office are now looked at with more affection,” said William C. Inboden, a former aide and the executive director of the Clements Center on History, Strategy and Statecraft at the University of Texas, Austin. “There’s also more appreciation for the challenges and the calls a president has to make to keep a nation safe.”
Mr. Bush has benefited from his decision not to publicly second-guess his successor. Donna Brazile, who managed Al Gore’s campaign against Mr. Bush in 2000, said she was told that Mr. Obama was “grateful and admiring of how the Bushes approached the post-presidency,” adding that “this should serve as a different template for the modern presidency.”
And the contrast with today’s Republicans in Congress has stoked some nostalgia. “The view of him has softened because of the continuing rightward march of the Republican Party,” said Steve Elmendorf, a Democratic House aide during the Bush era. “He is looking more centrist and moderate every day.”
But others are frustrated by what they call Bush revisionism. “Time passing may fade some of the sharpness of the memories of the Bush era, but the toll from the Iraq war isn’t any less bad just because some time has passed,” said Anna Galland, the executive director of MoveOn.org Civic Action, a liberal activist group. “The people who lost their homes and were personally devastated by the economic collapse of 2008 are not going to get that time back.”
Mr. Bush confronts the toll from Iraq and Afghanistan regularly. He spends time with “wounded warriors,” hosting an annual 100-kilometer bicycle ride across the Texas desert and a Warrior Open golf tournament.
For Mr. Bush, this is not about reliving the past but about picking up and starting again. And that is where the painting comes in. He read how his idol Winston Churchill took up brushes and oils after leaving office and tried it too.
“He’s very serious about it and very disciplined,” Mr. Glassman said, “which is the way he does everything.”
Ms. Nelson, the former first lady’s friend and herself an artist, said she was struck by Mr. Bush’s passion. It is, in the end, about the future, she said. “You just can’t look backwards.”
Michael Cappelletti of Alexandria, Va., died on Nov. 14, at 71. In national championships, he won the 1967 Master Mixed Teams and the 2013 Leventritt Silver Ribbon Pairs and had seven seconds. He amassed 24,317.23 master points, placing him 49th on the lifetime list.
Cappelletti won one bronze world championship medal, in the 1974 Mixed Teams.
He served on the American Contract Bridge League Board of Governors and the National Appeals Committee. He was a former president of the Mid-Atlantic Bridge Conference and the Washington Bridge League. He is survived by his wife, Susan Green, and four children.
He devised the eponymous defense against a one-no-trump opening. A two-club overcall shows any long suit, two diamonds announces a major two-suiter, and two of major indicates that suit and either minor.
Away from the bridge table, Cappelletti was a top-class poker player, being recognized especially as an expert in the version called Omaha. He was a lawyer who worked first for the Justice Department and then the public defender’s office in Washington.
At the bridge table, Cappelletti particularly enjoyed deceptive plays, finding one in the diagramed deal.
Even though South’s one no-trump showed 16 to 18 points, he should have added one point for his five-card suit and opened one diamond, planning to rebid with a jump in no-trump.
Against three no-trump, Cappelletti (West) led his fourth-highest spade.
Declarer decided first to play East for the diamond queen, and if it transpired that West had that card, then to play West for the club queen — a line that looked destined for success.
However, when South took the first trick with dummy’s spade ace and ran the diamond ten, Cappelletti won not with his queen but with his ace. He then led another spade.
Now, South thought he was home. He won with his spade king, played a club to dummy’s ace and ran the diamond nine. But West, as if by prestidigitation, produced the queen and cashed three spades for down one.
Henry Bethe related an amusing story concerning Cappelletti. Many years ago, at a regional tournament in Washington, Mike and his first wife, now Kathie Walvick, took part with other married couples in a version of “The Newlywed Game.” Each wife was asked, “Would your husband prefer to have a date with Cheryl Tiegs or to play in the Spingold Knockout Teams final.”
Every wife gave the same answer as her husband, and Kathie was the only one who chose the date with Cheryl Tiegs.
Al Porcino, whose powerful sound and ability to hit the highest of high notes with ease brought him work as the lead trumpeter in some of the most celebrated big bands in jazz, died on Dec. 31 in Munich. He was 88. 
The cause was a fall, said his wife, Erna Tom. 
From the 1940s into the ’70s, Mr. Porcino held the first trumpet chair in the bands of Count Basie, Woody Herman, Stan Kenton and Buddy Rich, among others. He also led his own ensembles, including one that accompanied the singer Mel Tormé on the Grammy-nominated 1975 album “Live at the Maisonette.” 
He moved to Munich after leaving the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis band during a European tour in 1977, and led a big band there under his name that had been performing regularly until shortly before his death. 
As the first trumpet in bands that typically consisted of about 15 musicians, Mr. Porcino’s job was to lead not just his section but, in effect, the entire ensemble in executing the often complex arrangements, making sure they were played with precision exactly as written. “I never had great technique on the horn,”  he told Marc Myers of the website JazzWax in 2011. “But many different arrangers liked how I played their music and handled the trumpet section. I could swing.”
His fellow musicians did not share that view of his technique. Indeed, they tended to speak of his musicianship in almost reverential terms. 
Angelo Paul Porcino was born in Brooklyn on May 14, 1925, and grew up in Weehawken, N.J. He studied trumpet in high school and began playing professionally in his teens. 
“I received a draft notice, but I wasn’t inducted because I’m colorblind,” he told Mr. Myers. “But I played at a lot of Army bases for the troops. The big impact of the war on me was that I was called for an audition with Louis Prima when I wasn’t yet 18 years old. That’s because all the older guys were in the Army fighting.” 
His work with the Herman and Kenton bands in the late 1940s established his reputation as a high-note specialist. “You play the melody, and your horn is heard on top of the band,” he said in 2011. “You’re the high note. As a result, you can’t afford to make a mistake.” 
He worked again with both bands in the 1950s, as well as with Count Basie and Charlie Parker. He was also an active studio musician in both New York and Los Angeles in the ’50s and ’60s, working with the likes of Frank Sinatra, Ray Charles and Peggy Lee and on movie soundtracks. 
In addition to his wife, Mr. Porcino is survived by two daughters, Debra Ogorzaly and Gia Krietzberg; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren. 
MILAN — The room, framed by wire screens, was empty until the Prada guests took their places and an orchestra started to trumpet from a pit in the center.
“For years I took the most extrovert point of view, but this collection is completely introverted,” said Miuccia Prada backstage.
She was referring to slim, sober suits with a nifty and colorful scarf stroking one shoulder — one of the small concessions in this men’s wear winter 2014 collection, which was so totally different in spirit from the bold artists’ portraits in the last women’s show or the colorful Hawaiian prints for men. While Milan designers have mostly played with sportswear, Ms. Prada concentrated on tailoring.
This time there was color in the skinny scarves and thin pants puddling over vivid sneakers. But the peacock male was totally trounced by the women, preening in their brightly colored furs, their feather boas sashaying out in sheer dresses on high heels.
Why the mousy male and the flirtatious outgoing woman? Just when it seemed that there could not be another take on the slim, dull suit, the collection was thrown a life jacket. Make that a straightjacket, as the poor little men were caged into a series of body straps.
Ms. Prada — who with her husband, Patrizio Bertelli, will open a Prada modern art museum in Milan in 2015 — probably had some explanation for the simple and no doubt salable tailoring. But, as she said, she kept it to herself.
Roy Campbell Jr., who carried the soulful swagger of hard-bop trumpet into the jazz avant-garde, of which he became a pillar, died on Jan. 9 at his home in the Bronx. He was 61. 
The cause was hypertensive atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, said his sister, Valerie Campbell Morris, his only immediate survivor.
Mr. Campbell was a proud heir to the legacy of 1960s free jazz as established by trailblazers like the saxophonist Albert Ayler, the pianist Cecil Taylor and the trumpeter Don Cherry, one of Mr. Campbell’s idols. Combining a pugnacious sound with an open-minded approach, Mr. Campbell worked with an array of colleagues in that lineage. He was a fixture at the Vision Festival in New York, an annual celebration of avant-gardism, and recorded his most recent album, “Akhenaten Suite” (Aum Fidelity), in concert there in 2007. 
As a composer and bandleader he favored strong rhythm and folkloric texture, putting those elements together in Tazz, an energetic quartet featuring piano, bass and drums, and Pyramid Trio, with the bassist William Parker and a succession of drummers. “Ethnic Stew and Brew,” a Pyramid Trio album released on Delmark in 2001, was one of Mr. Campbell’s most critically acclaimed. 
For more than 20 years, off and on, he also stood front and center in Other Dimensions in Music, a ruggedly spontaneous band with Daniel Carter on reeds and flute (and sometimes trumpet), Mr. Parker on bass and Rashid Bakr on drums. He held a similar role as a member of the Nu Band, and in ensembles led by Mr. Parker, the pianist Matthew Shipp and the guitarist Marc Ribot. 
Roy Sinclair Campbell Jr. was born in Los Angeles on Sept. 29, 1952, and raised from the age of 2 in the Bronx. His mother, Erna Arene Forte Campbell, worked at P.S. 21 in the Bronx; his father was a Wall Street communications specialist and a trumpeter himself. Roy Jr. began his musical training on piano and also learned flute and violin.
The trumpet became his focus during his senior year in high school, and from then on he moved quickly. Through the nonprofit music-outreach organization Jazzmobile, he studied with Lee Morgan, Kenny Dorham and Howard McGhee, assertive trumpeters from different points on the bebop spectrum. He majored in trumpet at the Borough of Manhattan Community College, where he also studied theory and composition with the esteemed multi-reedist Yusef Lateef, who died last month at 93.
Mr. Campbell formed his first band, Spectrum, at 20, and began playing widely as a sideman, notably with Ensemble Muntu, a fixture on New York’s 1970s loft-jazz scene. He released his debut album, “New Kingdom” (Delmark), in 1992, around the time he ended a two-year stint in the Netherlands; its opening track was “I Remember Lee,” a pledge of allegiance to Morgan. (On his following album, Mr. Campbell would include a waltz titled “Booker’s Lament,” after another influence, the trumpeter Booker Little.) 
Beyond his affinities with hard bop and free jazz, Mr. Campbell worked in a range of styles including funk, hip-hop and reggae. And he was an encouraging mentor to younger trumpeters, both informally and in his capacity as a founder of the stylistically broad Festival of New Trumpet Music, which he established with Dave Douglas in 2003. 
In the end, the Donald did not.
Amid a buzz of anticipation, Donald Trump once again flirted with a run for governor on Wednesday night, but stopped short of committing his money, time and oversize personality to stopping the re-election hopes of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo.
Instead, Mr. Trump said he would run only if the Republican Party unified behind him — “The last thing you need is a primary” — and asked him to take the nomination.
“If that were the case I would run,” he said. “And I believe I would win.”
Mr. Trump’s speech, which touched on everything from tolls at the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to the cunning of Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, was made to a group of Republicans who had gathered to celebrate the birth of Abraham Lincoln, who knew a thing or two about grand pronouncements. And Mr. Trump seemed confident that Lincoln’s party had a legitimate shot in November, despite the positive poll numbers and ample campaign cash of Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat. 
“The Republicans can absolutely win the gubernatorial election coming up,” Mr. Trump said, before outlining, in broad strokes, what a Trump administration would look like, in a keynote address to the county party’s annual Lincoln Day Dinner at the Grand Hyatt on 42nd Street. 
“I would make New York State one of the great energy capitals of the world,” he said, by permitting hydraulic fracturing, “and I would cut everybody’s taxes in half. And it would be easy.”
Mr. Trump, a millionaire developer and professional self-promoter, has been hinting at entering the race for governor for several months, and has seemingly upped his interest in recent weeks. That includes appearing at a packed Jan. 31 fund-raiser in suburban Buffalo, where he again asserted that he could run — but only if no other Republican stood in his way. 
But other Republicans are interested in running. Last week, Rob Astorino, the Westchester County executive, confirmed that he had formed an exploratory committee for a bid for governor, and recruited Michael Lawler, who left a job as the executive director of the state party to manage the nascent committee.
Mr. Astorino, a Republican who was handily re-elected to a second term in Westchester in November, has been widely considered to be the preferred candidate of party leaders, including Edward F. Cox, the party chairman, who called him “almost Reaganesque” in his appeal. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Cox was more positive when asked about Mr. Trump, applauding the “energy in the room” as Mr. Trump smiled and took photographs with a parade of well-wishers, including a juggler on stilts dressed like Uncle Sam.
“I’d love to see both of them in the race till the convention,” said Mr. Cox, adding that Mr. Trump was a “terrific businessman and a winner as a TV star.”
In an interview, Mr. Trump was less generous about Mr. Cox, saying that during private meetings with Republican leaders at Trump Tower on Wednesday he had received almost unanimous support. “They want me to do it,” Mr. Trump said. “Other than Ed Cox, who doesn’t know how to win. He’s never won anything so he doesn’t know how to win.”
Mr. Trump’s potential candidacy was openly encouraged from the dais on Wednesday night, where the county chairman, Daniel W. Isaacs, wished aloud that Mr. Cuomo “will be called in 2015 a former governor.”
And then, pausing, he added, “Especially if someone sitting at table 13 tells us a certain something.” He then unveiled a mock-up of a campaign poster reading “Trump for Governor.” Several dozen — of several hundred attendees — stood, and a chant of “Run, Donald, Run,” began. It ended quickly.
As that suggests, the Republican embrace of Mr. Trump was far from universal. Joseph J. Lhota, who lost a run for mayor in November, was blunt when asked about his feelings about the occasion. 
“I’m not here for Donald Trump,” he said.
Mr. Trump is not the only wealthy Republican in real estate mulling his options. Carl P. Paladino, the failed 2010 Republican candidate and a prominent Buffalo developer, has also floated the possibility of another bid. Both would face stiff challenges from Governor Cuomo, who has some $33 million in campaign cash. Poll numbers suggest a majority of New Yorkers would like him to serve a second term.
But on Wednesday, Mr. Trump seemed unimpressed.
“Fortunately for me that’s not a lot of money,” he said. “For other people, maybe it is.”
Bill Gifford was managing an ice cream shop in Maplewood, N.J., last summer when a customer, Ken Kurson, the editor of The New York Observer, came in with an unorthodox request. He wanted Mr. Gifford, a 28-year-old political science major who was seeking a new job but had almost no journalistic experience, to write an article about the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman. 
Mr. Kurson described Mr. Schneiderman as a “bad guy” and a “phony,” and hired Mr. Gifford for the writing assignment, Mr. Gifford said. But after several weeks, and after being sent negative articles about Mr. Schneiderman, Mr. Gifford said on Wednesday, he became convinced that the article “was supposed to be basically a smear piece” and he quit the job. 
The Observer was not deterred. It hired another freelance reporter to keep working on the piece, and on Tuesday it published the finished product — a searing, 7,000-word indictment of Mr. Schneiderman, portraying him as vindictive and politically opportunistic. The article also included a robust defense of Donald J. Trump, whose education business was being sued by Mr. Schneiderman’s office, seeking $40 million in restitution. More materially to the critics, Mr. Trump is the father-in-law of The Observer’s owner, Jared Kushner, and an acquaintance of Mr. Kurson. 
In an interview, Mr. Kurson disputed the idea that he tried to use Mr. Gifford to smear Mr. Schneiderman, and did not recall being negative about the attorney general. An Observer spokesman said, “This is just an obvious attempt to distract attention from a substantive, well-written article whose facts have not been materially disputed.” 
But the tangle of personal connections and the dueling accusations of impropriety have prompted a high-level spat involving politics, the law, the media and the ubiquitous Mr. Trump.
Mr. Schneiderman’s office said in a statement Wednesday, “It’s a shame that a once-great newspaper chose to use its front page to regurgitate a discredited complaint filed by the father-in-law of the paper’s publisher.” 
Mr. Trump fired back. “Schneiderman is a crook who uses the system dishonestly to his own advantage,” he said in an email.
Meanwhile, Mr. Gifford said he had a good idea of his role in the arc of the story since his role was first revealed by BuzzFeed. He criticized Mr. Kurson reluctantly. 
“He does come to my shop, he did want to give me this opportunity,” he said, “but I do feel like he might have been using me. To even call me a journalist is a reach, and to write such an important piece on an important person,” he said, tailing off. 
The Observer, bought by Mr. Kushner in 2006 when he was just 25, has long traded on its coverage of New York’s boldface names, or those who aspired to be among them. It gazed at the rich while skewering them on its distinctive pink pages, and nurtured a generation of writers, including Candace Bushnell, the author of the Sex and the City column, who went on to bigger things. 
The paper’s previous editors include Graydon Carter, now the editor of Vanity Fair, and Susan Morrison, an editor at The New Yorker. The editor perhaps most associated with the paper, Peter W. Kaplan, died of cancer last year. He was appointed in 1994 and left the Observer in 2009, as Mr. Kushner transformed the paper and cut staff. It has now had six editors in eight years. 
With the article about Mr. Schneiderman, the paper is caught up in just the kind of high-society contretemps it usually relishes. Mr. Trump, a real estate developer, is a reality TV star. Mr. Kushner is the son of a wealthy New Jersey property developer, Charles Kushner, and is seeking to make his mark in the New York media world. He is married to Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka, an entrepreneur and socialite. 
Mr. Kurson is a Kushner family friend and former political consultant who has worked closely with Rudolph W. Giuliani. He donated $1,900 to the campaign of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey in late 2012, before he became the editor of The Observer, according to State of New Jersey records. 
Mr. Schneiderman’s office said that Mr. Gifford began emailing the office and requesting information last summer, as a lengthy investigation of Mr. Trump’s for-profit investment school was drawing to a close and litigation seemed imminent. Days after Mr. Schneiderman’s office announced a lawsuit, accusing Mr. Trump and others involved with the school of running it as an unlicensed educational institution and making false claims about its classes, the volume of inquiries increased, Mr. Schneiderman’s office said. 
Suspicions that the article was ordered up as retribution on Mr. Schneiderman were fueled in part by a message Mr. Trump had posted on Twitter in December, after Vanity Fair published a long article on the investigation. He mentioned that there was another publication “currently doing a story on me to get even, that I’ll soon discuss!”
Asked about that Twitter comment, Mr. Kurson, who took over as editor just over a year ago, said by telephone, “I can’t control what Mr. Trump says any more than he can control what goes in The Observer.” He said in a later email that he could not recall sending negative stories to Mr. Gifford, as Mr. Gifford claimed, or being negative about Mr. Schneiderman and “was not trying to get Bill to report anything to suit a particular agenda.” Mr. Gifford, he said, had worked for Democratic officials in the past. 
“The idea that I ‘used Bill’s inexperience’ is an ugly thing to say and it’s also wrong,” Mr. Kurson said. “I take seriously The Observer’s long history of molding young people into great writers and giving them their first opportunities.”
David Granger, the editor in chief of Esquire, where Mr. Kurson had long written, spoke warmly of him. “Anybody would have been surprised that Ken was named editor of The Observer,” he said, “but he tends to engender trust in the people he both works for and is friends with.” 
Mr. Kurson is, he said, “one of the most loyal and straightforward people I’ve ever met.” 
Mr. Kurson denied that Mr. Kushner has any editorial influence. Mr. Kushner did not respond to an email seeking comment, and other efforts to reach him were unsuccessful. 
Through a spokesman, Mr. Trump denied any influence over the story about Mr. Schneiderman, and any prior knowledge of its contents beyond being interviewed for it. 
The 31-year-old trumpeter and composer Ambrose Akinmusire brings a watchful, simmering, hazy-beauty sensibility to his interactions with the post-bop lineage, where lines often tend to be more sharply drawn. His second album on Blue Note, “the imagined savior is far easier to paint,” is full of moments that lean toward the expressionistic, sometimes featuring a string ensemble or a vocalist delving into what amounts to art song. 
Drawing from the album, due out on Tuesday, for his run at the Jazz Standard from Thursday through next Sunday, Mr. Akinmusire will augment his agile quintet with just one outside collaborator, the young guitar ace Charles Altura. Which is more than enough resources at his disposal. 
(7:30 and 9:30 p.m., with an 11:30 p.m. set on Friday and Saturday, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, 212-576-2232, jazzstandard.net.) 
The Metro-North Railroad has fallen prey to a “deficient safety culture” that prizes on-time performance at the expense of protecting riders and workers, according to a blistering federal review that was ordered after a spate of rail disasters.
The review, from the Federal Railroad Administration, found that the commuter railroad’s operations control center pressured workers “to rush when responding to signal failures,” and that workers struggled to secure the track time needed to perform essential repairs.
Even policies as pedestrian as the use of cellphones have created dangers: Amid confusion about the rules, cellphone use is “commonplace and accepted” among track workers on the job.
The inquiry, known as Operation Deep Dive, was prompted by the fatal derailment on Dec. 1 of a Hudson line train in the Bronx; it killed four passengers and injured more than 70 others. But the scope of the analysis was far-reaching — no passenger railroad has ever been the subject of such an investigation of its safety culture — and its conclusions were withering for a system that was, less than a year ago, considered one of the nation’s most dependable.
“The findings of Operation Deep Dive demonstrate that Metro-North has emphasized on-time performance to the detriment of safe operations and adequate maintenance of its infrastructure,” said the report, which is to be released on Friday.
“This is a severe assessment,” it continued, “and it is intended as an urgent call to action to Metro-North’s leadership.”
After the crash, Metro-North initiated various safety changes, and in January, the president of the rail line, Howard R. Permut, said he would step down. But the report makes clear that the problems at the railroad went beyond any single person or accident. And few corners of the agency’s operations were spared.
The railroad administration faulted the inadequate training of track inspectors and the “general state” of track maintenance. The operations control center included “no sound barriers between the controllers or chief dispatchers,” increasing the risk for distraction, the report said. Safety briefings were poorly attended, one of many “obvious signs of a weak safety culture,” it said.
And workers across Metro-North often perceived that on-time performance was “the most important criteria,” the review found.
The railroad administration said that Metro-North — which runs from Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan into New York City’s northern suburbs and Connecticut — must submit plans to improve its safety and training programs, among other changes, within 60 days.
In a statement, the railroad’s new president, Joseph J. Giulietti, said that the railroad administration “has performed an important review of Metro-North operations and recommended significant improvements.” While he said the railroad would discuss the recommendations in more detail once the report was released formally, he said Metro-North was taking “aggressive actions to affirm that safety is the most important factor in railroad operations.”
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates Metro-North, has already made several changes since the derailment. These have included modifying its signal system to enforce speed limits at certain locations; reducing speed limits in some areas to eliminate situations in which the limit drops by more than 20 miles per hour; and posting speed limit signs at higher-risk curves to remind train operators that a reduction is coming.
The authority also plans to use the railroad administration’s “close call reporting system,” which allows employees to report safety concerns anonymously.
Reversing years of gains, Metro-North’s on-time performance last year was its worst since the 1990s — a testament, officials said, to both the range of calamities that snarled service and the safety measures already pursued in their wake.
New schedules to be released this spring are expected to reflect longer commute times.
Some of the corrective actions outlined in the federal report could also have effects. Concerned with the lack of time allotted to crews to complete track work, for instance, the railroad administration called on Metro-North to analyze its train schedules “to determine if there is sufficient time for inspection and maintenance of track.”
After the December derailment, some officials were quick to note that Metro-North’s safety record since its inception in the 198os had been mostly spotless, with no accident-related passenger deaths.
Lawmakers have attributed the streak, at least in part, to good fortune.
“Sometimes people skirt the rules and they just have good luck,” said Representative Nita Lowey of New York, the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. “It is likely that they’ve been cutting corners,” she added.
Ms. Lowey called on Congress to fully finance President Obama’s request for $825 million to help commuter railroads install a system known as positive train control, which can dictate speeds and slow trains around sharp curves, like the one at the site of the December crash.
The report cited four accidents on Metro-North tracks in 2013: a collision last May on the New Haven line, which injured scores of passengers; the death less than two weeks later of a track foreman who was struck when a trainee rail controller opened a stretch of track without proper clearance in West Haven, Conn.; the derailment of a CSX freight train near the Spuyten Duyvil station in July; and the derailment in December.
The report did not include the most recent fatal episode on Metro-North. On Monday, a worker, James Romansoff, was struck and killed while working on the tracks at 106th Street and Park Avenue.
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, a frequent critic of Metro-North, said the most recent death made it clear that safety was still not a high enough priority for the railroad. The report, he said, “confirmed our worst fears.”
The railroad administration placed an emphasis on Metro-North’s training procedures and the relative inexperience of employees at its control center.
About half of the dispatching work force has less than three years of experience, the report said, and managers receive no formal training in how to perform operational testing for rail traffic controllers.
Improving training protocols is particularly significant for Metro-North during what has been a period of wide-scale turnover. The railroad was brought under the transportation authority’s auspices in 1983, and in part because retirees can receive maximum pension payments after 30 years of service, officials said, high-level retirements have occurred in rapid succession.
Last year, Metro-North hired about 700 new employees, according to the report, and it expects to hire roughly 800 in 2014.
“If you care about safety, you’ll do very good training,” Mr. Schumer said. “If you don’t, you won’t.”
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Bubba Watson is old enough to be Jordan Spieth’s uncle, but that is not why their final-round duel at the Masters remained compelling long after the outcome was no longer in doubt.
Spieth, 20, has never seen a shot he did not expect to pull off. Watson, 35, has never seen a shot he didn’t want to try. Spieth is a perfectionist; Watson, an impressionist. Together with the ageless set, led by Miguel Ángel Jiménez, the 50-year-old human bungee cord, the 78th Masters dispelled a few misconceptions about professional golf and the tortured souls who play it.
Can we banish, once and for all, the notion that the players are corporate clones? There is nothing in nature, short of a freak weather system, capable of dismantling Augusta National quite the way Watson did in his final-round three-under-par 69, which left him at eight under for the tournament, three strokes better than Spieth and Jonas Blixt.
Let the club members try to Bubba-proof the course. If they plant more loblolly pines, he’ll simply fade the ball around them or off them, as he did with his 366-yard drive on the 13th. Or he’ll shoot his ball through a cruise-ship portal of space between branches, the way he did on his second shot Sunday on the par-5 15th.
The safe play for someone protecting a three-stroke lead, as Watson was, was to lay up at No. 15. Watson’s caddie, Ted Scott, knew better than to suggest it. He watched Watson take his 6-iron and hit a punch shot through a narrow opening. The ball carried almost 200 yards and bounced off the back of the green, setting up a par that was anything but routine.
“That’s Bubba golf,” Scott said, adding: “I was like, ‘That’s not a very big gap.’ But for him, he sees huge gaps.”
Nobody makes five closing pars to win the Masters more entertaining than Watson. Asked to describe Bubba golf, Scott said, “Freak show.”
When the laughter subsided, he said, “I can’t describe it any other way.”
Scott added, “Every single day I’m watching him like, ‘How do you do that?’ ”
Watson can control his ball’s trajectory and spin, but he has no control over his tears, which irrigated the 18th green Sunday night. Good for him, and good for golf. Golf needs characters.
“He’s just different,” Scott said. “A lot of times, people maybe take that the wrong way. I love that about Bubba.”
Unlike Spieth, impatient at times Sunday when his ball did not end up exactly where he had envisioned, or the touring pros who pick at their swings on the range until there is nothing left of their confidence, Watson does not try to be perfect. He settles for being perfectly creative.
“I think the way Bubba plays golf is fantastic,” said Arron Oberholser, a Golf Channel analyst. “And I think it is great for people to see that all over the world, that you don’t need to have a perfect golf swing to get great results.”
If Watson commandeered the main event, Jiménez was a worthy warm-up act. Jiménez, the low senior at four under, had the full attention of the fans, and that was before his opening shot. Those watching him on the practice range might have missed the ponytail sticking out the back of his cap or the cigar in his mouth, entranced instead by the contortion act that he calls stretching.
His routine makes people point and sometimes snicker, but Jiménez does not care. He is enjoying the last laugh.
“It’s my 26th year on tour, and probably some people say, ‘That’s so many years, that’s got to be hard and that’s got to be hard on the body,’ ” Jiménez said. “No, I love what I’m doing, and I hope I’m still in the same condition for another 25.”
He laughed, adding, “I’m not going to get bored of myself.”
Golfers representing four decades finished in the top six at Augusta, but Jiménez scoffed at the notion that technological advances in equipment got them there.
“Yeah, technology helps, too, of course,” he said. “But if you don’t know how to hit the ball, then technology don’t do nothing.”
The players who equate working out with lifting weights, who are obsessed with building muscles and gaining strength and believe stretching is boring, should listen to Jiménez.
He must be doing something right. He is healthy enough to play, after all, and of the 97 players who started the tournament, only three finished ahead of him.
One of those players, Spieth, has a 50-year-old’s poise to go with a fully mature game. It is a combination capable of steering some of his golfing peers still in college into a less competitive profession, like investment banking.
Spieth did not lose the tournament Sunday; the more experienced Watson leaned on all his institutional knowledge to win it. The one swing Spieth would have liked to have done over, his tee shot on No. 12, was a few feet from being perfect. As it was, it rolled off the green and into the water.
“I learned that I actually can have patience,” Spieth said. “That’s something I’ve been struggling with in these kinds of positions. That’s why I don’t think I’ve won more when I’ve had a chance to.”
The Masters was Spieth’s 43rd tour start. He has recorded six top-3 finishes in those events, including one victory. With expectations like Spieth’s, who needs experience?
DETROIT — The narrative for the Bruins-Red Wings series was plausible and logical. Boston, the winner of the Presidents’ Trophy for the N.H.L.’s best record, would be the aggressor, using its burliness and noted agitators like Brad Marchand to set the tone. Detroit, which survived an injury-marred regular season to squeak into the playoffs as the Eastern Conference’s eighth seed, would use its youthful speed to counterattack. 
The result is following the seeding: The Bruins lead the first-round series, two games to one, with Game 4 set for Thursday at Joe Louis Arena. 
The Bruins have concertedly disrupted the Red Wings, outscoring them, 7-1, in consecutive wins. The Red Wings have been shut out in four straight periods and have failed to score on nine power plays in the series. The Bruins have pushed Detroit’s forwards to the outside, away from goaltender Tuukka Rask.
“You know nothing comes easy in the playoffs; it’s about continuing to do the hard work and being smart,” Bruins left wing Milan Lucic said. “We’re playing smart right now, and we know what we have to do against a team as talented as Detroit. We’re taking nothing for granted; we’re only up, 2-1.”
While Detroit has found its speed neutralized, with Boston winning every key matchup, the Red Wings know they are only a win away from sending the series back to Boston on Saturday tied at 2-2.
“It’s one of those things where they’ve done a good job; give them credit,” Red Wings left wing Justin Abdelkader said. “They’ve done a good job of trapping it, boxing out and getting bodies in front. We’ve got to make a few adjustments, and we’ll be fine.” 
“We’ve got a few guys who can get the job done,” he added. “As a playoff series goes on, it’s about adjusting to what the other team does.”
Intelligence and poise have defined the Bruins. (An exception was Lucic’s spearing the groin of Detroit defenseman Danny DeKeyser in Game 1, resulting in a $5,000 fine by the N.H.L.) Marchand is pesky but has not logged time in the penalty box. 
Red Wings Coach Mike Babcock, when asked Wednesday about how he was going to deal with Marchand’s ability to create drama, was succinct.
“Ignore him,” Babcock said. 
Marchand, however, has made himself impossible to ignore. He has gotten under the skin of the young centers Tomas Tatar and Luke Glendening. 
“You want to play with an edge in the playoffs but not go over the line,” Marchand said. “I think I’ve done a good job so far.”
Bruins veterans, such as right wing Jarome Iginla and defenseman Zdeno Chara, the captain, are stalwarts. Younger players, like defensemen Dougie Hamilton and Kevan Miller and right wing Jordan Caron, are growing more confident by the game.
“A lot of people talk about us in how we play physically or how we’re bigger, but we can do a lot of things right out there,” said Hamilton, 20, who scored his first career playoff goal in Tuesday’s 2-0 win at Joe Louis Arena. “We’ve got speed, too. We’ve got the skill, too. We know it’s going to take all of us together to win in the playoffs. It’s obviously good when that is all working.”
The Red Wings have played all season with a patchwork lineup, filled with first- and second-year players, because of injuries to stars such as Pavel Datsyuk and Henrik Zetterberg. The veteran Daniel Alfredsson has been dealing with nagging lower back pain.
Datsyuk, playing on a surgically repaired left knee, is less than healthy. Zetterberg, who had back surgery Feb. 21 for a herniated disk, completed a hard practice with the team Wednesday, but had not been medically cleared to play. Alfredsson missed practice Wednesday and remained a question mark.
Babcock said his team played nervously in Game 3. Detroit’s normally supportive fans quickly turned on the Red Wings, booing them off the ice after they fell behind, 2-0, in the first period.
“We played like kids,” Babcock said. “We have a lot of young guys, they carried us, and now we expect them to perform. 
“The Stanley Cup playoffs are for men, each and every year,” he added. “It takes you a while to figure it out. But do you want to wait for next year, or do you want to do something about it now?”
Donald Trump reached a deal to buy Turnberry, the picturesque links course and resort on the west coast of Scotland that has hosted the British Open four times. The most recent was in 2009, when Stewart Cink won a playoff over Tom Watson, who was 59 at the time. 
The P.G.A. of America provided the developer Donald Trump with a double gift, announcing that it had awarded the 2017 Senior P.G.A. Championship to Trump National Golf Club in Washington, and the 2022 P.G.A. Championship to Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J. This week, Trump agreed to acquire the Turnberry Resort in Scotland, which is part of the rotation of courses that host the British Open. 
■ Ángel Cabrera finished one shot ahead of Phil Mickelson and Martin Flores in the first round of the Wells Fargo Championship in Charlotte, N.C. Cabrera played in the morning and thrived on the new Bermuda greens at Quail Hollow. He made seven birdies and shot a six-under-par 66. (AP)
■ Suzann Pettersen shot a bogey-free five-under 66 to lead after the first round of the North Texas L.P.G.A. Shootout. (AP)
DENVER —  After two lifeless losses to open their four-game series against the Colorado Rockies, the Mets endured their most deflating defeat this weekend at Coors Field, watching a 6-0 lead turn into an 8-6 deficit and two late rallies go for naught as pinch-hitter Charlie Culberson hit a two-run homer in the bottom of the ninth to give the Rockies an 11-10 victory Saturday night.
Juan Lagares had given the Mets a 10-9 lead in the top half of the ninth before Kyle Farnsworth came in to try for the save. Farnsworth gave up a leadoff single to Troy Tulowitzki before Culberson launched a 1-2 pitch over the center-field wall to hand the Mets their third consecutive loss.
“Fastball up and away, and it just came in the middle, I guess,” Farnsworth said. “He put a swing on it.”
In the top of the ninth, the Mets took a short-lived lead when Lagares ripped a pitch from the former Mets reliever LaTroy Hawkins into right field to score pinch-runner Eric Young Jr., who entered the game after pinch-hitter Bobby Abreu hit a one-out double to left field. Young had advanced to third when Josh Satin grounded into a fielder’s choice. 
Hawkins was credited with his first win of the season. 
Farnsworth said it was tough to end with a loss after his teammates had fought back. 
“They are always difficult,” he said. “You have to keep on battling. The guys played well tonight and came up on the wrong end of it.”
Catcher Anthony Recker added: “That is a situation where I could have called a different pitch. I will take the blame for that.”
The 10 runs and 17 hits were season highs for the Mets, who had scored nine runs on April 15 against Arizona and recorded 13 hits against the Diamondbacks on April 14.
Chris Young helped the Mets tie the score, 9-9, in the eighth inning when he hit a one-out, run-scoring single off Adam Ottavino to left field to score Daniel Murphy, who hit a leadoff double. 
An inning earlier, Tulowitzki notched his 1,000th career hit with a liner up the middle off Daisuke Matsuzaka. Jordan Pacheco hit a sacrifice fly to left-center field with the bases loaded and one out to score Tulowitzki and give the Rockies a 9-8 advantage.
Manager Terry Collins credited his team for answering each earlier Rockies rally. 
“We fought back time and again tonight, and we swung the bats very, very well,” Collins said. “This is a park that is known for getting your last at-bat; the last team that gets up can be the most dangerous.”
The Mets were in control through the game’s first four innings and held a 6-0 lead before the Rockies erupted for eight runs in the fifth inning, the most allowed by the Mets in a single inning this season. 
Jenrry Mejia, the Mets’ starter, looked sharp through the game’s first four innings, holding the Rockies to no runs on three hits. 
His night began to fall apart in the fifth inning when Ryan Wheeler led off with a solo home run to right field. Pacheco followed with a single to shallow center and D. J. LeMahieu drew a full-count walk. Mejia nearly got pinch-hitter Brandon Barnes to hit into a 6-4-3 double play, but Barnes was safe at first after Daniel Murphy’s throw was dropped by Lucas Duda. Charlie Blackmon and Drew Stubbs followed with run-scoring singles before Mejia drilled Tulowitzki on his left elbow to load the bases.
The offensive outburst was capped by Nolan Arenado’s second career grand slam when he crushed the first pitch he saw from Mejia into the left-field bleachers, turning a game the Mets had controlled into a shootout. Arenado, who finished 2 for 5, extended his major-league-leading hitting streak to 23 games.
Mejia was the latest Mets starter to fall victim to the Rockies’ powerful lineup, allowing a career-high eight runs, nine hits and two walks in four and a third innings. It was only the fifth time since 1914 that a Mets starting pitcher had allowed eight or more runs and not factored into the decision. 
Zack Wheeler, Friday night’s starter, also gave up a career high in runs (seven). In the first three games of the series at Coors Field, no Mets starter has gotten out of the fifth inning. 
Mejia called the fifth inning “unbelievable” after controlling the Rockies through the first four innings.
Looking back at it, Collins said it was easy to say he should have removed Mejia at the point, but in the moment he said that he thought his starter had handled Arenado well in the previous at-bat.
“You have to be able to get through it and mix your stuff up and maybe pitch them differently than you did the time before, but we will certainly take a good look at it and get him deeper into games,” Collins said. 
Still, the Mets fought right back in the sixth with a run-scoring double from Chris Young off Chris Martin. Young scored when Curtis Granderson hit Rex Brothers’s second pitch of the game to center field to tie the score at 8-8.
Granderson tied a season-high with two runs batted in for the second consecutive game. He helped the Mets open a 6-0 lead in the third inning with an R.B.I. single to right field that scored David Wright and gave the Mets a temporary 4-0 lead. The Mets scored three runs in the first and third innings.
It was only the second time this season Granderson had recorded multiple R.B.I. in consecutive games, and his four R.B.I. over the past two days are the most in a two-game span for him in 2014.
“We had to keep fighting until it is all said and done,” Granderson said. “Unfortunately, we were on the losing side of things.”
Wright, who began the night with a .383 batting average at Coors Field, his highest average in any ballpark, broke out of his 6-for-39 slump with a 3-for-5 performance. 
The Mets and the Rockies combined for 21 runs and 30 hits and used 10 pitchers in a game that lasted 3 hours 47 minutes.
Recker, who along with Granderson and Wright had two R.B.I. for the Mets on Saturday, said he believed the Mets could salvage the final game of the series Sunday. 
“It’s tough, but I don’t think it should be tough for us to bounce back tomorrow,” he said. “I think we will come out tomorrow and get a win.” 
INSIDE PITCH
Juan Lagares started his third consecutive game in center field since coming off the 15-day disabled list and batted leadoff once again. Manager Terry Collins said before the game that the way Lagares had been hitting the ball and playing defense since returning made it hard to take him out of the lineup right now, even though Collins had previously said that he planned on using an outfield rotation. “He is going to be out there the majority of the time,” Collins said. “He’s got to be; that’s No. 1. He is the future. He is showing he is getting better at it. If he starts hitting .195, we will have to take look at getting him out of there, but right now he is getting on base and doing all of the things you want.” 
MOSCOW — Putting his personal seal on the annexation of Crimea, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia traveled on Friday to the naval port of Sevastopol, where he used the anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany to assert that Moscow had the right to take over the Black Sea peninsula.
Over the past decade, Mr. Putin has gradually turned Victory Day into a celebration of resurgent Russian power and nationalism. The visit to Sevastopol, in southwestern Crimea, the historical home of Russia’s Black Sea Fleet, was a potent manifestation of his goal of reviving Russia as a global power.
The West reacted to the annexation in March with sanctions against Mr. Putin’s closest circle of advisers and a few significant companies. By going to Sevastopol, the Russian president effectively told Western leaders that Moscow would do as it pleased.
Mr. Putin’s visit coincided with new clashes in eastern Ukraine. Victory Day celebrations there were marred by an attack by Ukrainian government forces on a police station in Mariupol, where at least seven people were killed. In his speech on a naval quay, Mr. Putin, as he did at a ceremony in Red Square earlier in the day, stuck to the patriotic themes of the day — strength, heroism, struggle and resilience.
Speaking for less than four minutes, he ran through Sevastopol’s history: its naming by Catherine the Great 230 years ago; a 250-day Nazi siege the city endured; and its vote to rejoin Russia in March.
“I think 2014 will also be an important year in the annals of Sevastopol and our whole country, as the year when people living here firmly decided to be together with Russia, and thus confirmed their faith in the historic truth and the memory of our forefathers,” Mr. Putin said in remarks broadcast nationwide.
“There is a lot of work ahead, but we will overcome all the difficulties because we are together, and that means we have become even stronger,” he said.
The annexation provoked the greatest tensions between Russia and the West since the height of the Cold War. Mr. Putin has maintained that the territory had long belonged to Russia and that he was only righting a historical wrong. Separatists in Crimea, backed by the Russian military, organized a referendum in March in which an overwhelming majority of the residents, many of them ethnic Russians, chose to come under the control of Moscow.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine immediately issued a statement protesting Mr. Putin’s visit. It accused him of ignoring international law, the demands of the international community that Russia not occupy Crimea and a treaty between Russia and Ukraine that calls on both countries to respect their mutual borders.
“This provocation once again confirms that Russia deliberately chooses to escalate tensions in Russian-Ukrainian relations,” said the statement. “We urge the Russian side to return to civilized methods of interstate relations.”
The secretary general of NATO, Anders Fogh Rasmussen, condemned Mr. Putin’s visit as “inappropriate.” Speaking in Tallinn, the capital of Estonia, Mr. Rasmussen said that NATO considered the annexation illegal, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Rasmussen also said that NATO still had “no visible evidence” that Russia was withdrawing its 40,000 troops from the border with Ukraine, as Mr. Putin had said it would on Wednesday.
In Sevastopol harbor, the backdrop for Mr. Putin’s speech, the naval version of the Victory Day parade unfolded with 10 gray warships lined up at anchor. Before Mr. Putin spoke, television images showed the Russian president riding in a modest white naval launch through the harbor.
As he drew along aside each warship, he yelled into a microphone, “Hello, comrades!” and the naval personnel, arrayed at least two deep on deck in their blue dress uniforms, shouted back a ritual greeting to their commander in chief, followed by a rousing “Hurrah!”
People jammed the shores of the harbor to watch. After seizing many ships from Ukraine, Russia complained that they had been neglected and were barely more than scrap. The Kremlin has allocated $5 billion to refurbish the fleet.
Mr. Putin’s visit came just hours after a thundering Victory Day parade in Moscow, a lengthy review of Russia’s refurbished military and advanced hardware as it rolled through Red Square. The annual event came under global scrutiny in light of the tension over the future of Ukraine.
In the parade, the tribute to Crimea was not subtle. The first vehicle to enter the square behind row after row of tightly choreographed marching soldiers was an armored personnel carrier from a Black Sea Marines brigade, flying a large Crimean flag.
Some 11,000 soldiers and 150 military vehicles, including tanks and intercontinental ballistic missile launchers, rumbled through the square. Through cloudless skies, a flyover included 69 aircraft, marking the 69 years since the victory over Nazi Germany. During the parade, military bands playing marches and patriotic songs maintained a steady, thumping background beat.
In brief opening remarks before the first soldiers marched, Mr. Putin said the celebration represented all that makes Russia strong.
“This is the holiday when the invincible power of patriotism triumphs,” Mr. Putin said. “When all of us particularly feel what it means to be faithful to the Motherland and how important it is to defend its interests.”
Often, Mr. Putin’s annual Victory Day speech is both a national pep rally and a summary of the state of the Russian Federation, with the president using the address to emphasize important positions on foreign or domestic policy. This year, however, he adhered to the day’s theme of patriotism in the few minutes he spoke.
In Donetsk, a provincial capital that has fallen largely under the control of pro-Russian separatists, posters went up around the city showing red flags and Soviet military medals and praising “the heroes of Donbass,” as the region is known.
Outside the headquarters of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic, the separatist political group there, a frank and unapologetic celebration of Stalin was taking place, an indication of how the current conflict reflects divisions over the legacy of World War II. A flag showing Stalin’s mustachioed face and the phrase “Death to fascists” flapped lazily in a morning breeze.
“Kiev doesn’t want us to celebrate this holiday because they are supported by neo-Nazis,” said Yevgeny Ivanov, 44, a supporter of the Donetsk People’s Republic, as he was interviewed in a city park.
Victory Day has always been a fraught holiday in Ukraine, even under ordinary circumstances, because Ukrainians fought on both sides. The Ukrainian Partisan Army, which at times was loosely allied with Nazi Germany — because it considered any opponent of the hated Soviet Union an ally, its defenders say — became an inspiration for nationalist groups that arose in the 1990s.
The interim government in Kiev has discouraged large marches this year because of concerns about an outbreak of violence.
In the Black Sea port of Odessa, Ukraine, the city authorities feared that pro-Russian groups, which lost at least 40 supporters killed in street fighting and a fire last week, would use the day to regroup and stage a counterattack by seizing administrative buildings. The authorities decreed that the authorized celebration there should be confined to one park.
CHIANG YUEN, Thailand — They emerged flush with cash, the rice farmers who traveled to a state-owned bank here to retrieve the money that Thailand’s military junta had ordered they be paid.
But if the country’s ruling generals expected gratitude, it was not on display on Tuesday in this northeastern town, a bastion of the former governing party, which the military overthrew in a coup last Thursday.
“I still have anger in my heart,” said Maitree Vichapa, a farmer and part-time carpenter who arrived with his wife and child to receive 27,000 baht, or around $850. “We should have had this money a long time ago.”
In what it described as one of its first priorities, Thailand’s military ordered that 92 billion baht ($2.8 billion) be disbursed to rice farmers, a huge sum that is more than the entire annual budget for the national police force. The payouts, meant to lift rural incomes, were twice the market price for the farmers’ rice.
The previous government tried but was unable to pay farmers in the face of debilitating protests. The Bangkok establishment called the subsidies a wasteful and corrupt scheme. But the new military rulers ordered that the payments be made, and that the country’s banks lend the government the necessary cash.
The military also cranked up its propaganda machine, aided by the Thai news media, which has been largely subservient since the coup. “Farmers Receive Money With Tears of Joy,” ran the headline in a national newspaper, Ban Muang.
Other reports showed farmers marching to army bases to hand over red roses and holding up banners proclaiming appreciation for the general who led the coup, Prayuth Chan-ocha. Identical banners, featuring rice stalks and the same image of General Prayuth raising his hand in the air, were paraded by farmers in Phuket, Lopburi and Ubon Ratchathani, provinces that are separated by hundreds of miles.
Thai newspapers quoted farmers praising the military in highly formal language.
“We, on behalf of all farmers, would like to thank you for your true kindness and understanding of the hardship of the people,” a man who was described as a farmer was quoted by the ASTV Manager news website as saying. “We are here to offer moral support and flowers to thank you, the military of the entire people.”
In Chiang Yuen, though, where there was no visible military presence nearby, farmers chuckled over the reports.
“Real farmers wouldn’t come out and do those things,” said Duen Douangchansi, a farmer who received 280,000 baht (about $8,580) on Tuesday. “Real farmers would be too busy working.”
David Streckfuss, an expert in Thai politics who is based in the northeast, where the former government was popular, said the army was unlikely to win over many people in the region by handing out the rice money.
“Simply paying people for what they are owed is not going to buy the military any popularity, or somehow legitimize it,” Mr. Streckfuss said.
Mr. Streckfuss said that the army must address the fundamental issue of trust in democracy among the Thai citizenry.
The farmers in Chiang Yuen did not criticize the military on Tuesday, and some said they saw the army as a neutral force in the country. Even so, they said that a return to elections was imperative, and that they were confident that the ousted Pheu Thai party would win again. The party was founded by Thaksin Shinawatra, a former business tycoon and prime minister who is widely admired here for backing populist policies including universal health care, and his sister, Yingluck, was prime minister at the time of the coup.
In the months before the military stepped in, protesters backed by the Bangkok establishment blocked elections, which they saw as a threat to their traditional hegemony in Thai politics.
“The Bangkok establishment sees democracy as an unfair use of their tax money,” Mr. Streckfuss said. “They don’t see policies pursued by elected governments as benefiting them.” By contrast, he said, voters in the poorer northern provinces benefited from those policies, and “people in the northeast think democracy works for them.”
General Prayuth has said the country will return to democracy, but has not offered a timetable.
The rice payments were an apparent attempt by the ruling generals to show a compassionate side toward poorer provincial voters disenfranchised by the coup. But the junta also flashed its hard-line tactics on Tuesday when the country’s former education minister, Chaturon Chaisang, was arrested by soldiers at Bangkok’s foreign correspondents’ club soon after addressing journalists. Thai media reported he would be court-martialed for failing to surrender to the junta. And two Thai reporters who had asked General Prayuth about elections at a news conference were summoned to a meeting of junta leaders. “Being insistent with questioning is considered inappropriate,” said Maj. Gen. Pollapat Wannapaktr, a military spokesman.
In Chiang Yuen, Boonsri Pukongchana, 65, a former village headman, said that he was disappointed that the local talk radio station had stopped taking calls from people because of the coup, and that his neighbors were annoyed at having to seek permission to stay at a party later than the nationwide 10 p.m. curfew.
WASHINGTON — The landmark 1899 post office tower on Pennsylvania Avenue — the second-tallest building in Washington — looked out of place in the Federal Triangle of neoclassical government buildings constructed mostly in the 1930s.
To complete the Triangle in an architecturally compatible style, the government wanted to tear it down, leaving only the building’s clock tower to rise above its replacement in homage to the Richardsonian Romanesque structure that would be no more.
The 1970 plan gave rise to Don’t Tear It Down, an organization (now the D.C. Preservation League) that successfully fought the demolition. Yet efforts to reuse the old building as offices for other federal agencies, with a ground-floor food court pavilion below the soaring nine-story atrium, also failed. The Old Post Office, a preservationist success, was a governmental flop, a federal white elephant saved from the wrecking ball — but for what?
In 2011, the General Services Administration, which owns and manages federal properties, invited interested parties to consider the prospects. More than 80 initially showed interest. Ultimately, 10 firms made formal proposals.
Last August, the agency signed a 60-year lease with the Trump Organization to renovate and convert the iconic building into a luxury hotel. Trump formally takes possession on Saturday, allowing work to begin on a $200 million makeover. The deal also includes two 20-year lease renewal options.
According to Donald J. Trump, chairman and president of the Trump Organization, the two-year project is to be completed in time for the 2017 presidential inaugural parade, which will pass right in front en route from the Capitol to the White House. (A place occupied now by a frequent target of Mr. Trump’s barbs — President Obama.)
“It’s very unusual to have that frontage on such an unusual thoroughfare,” Mr. Trump said. “We’re looking to make that one of the great hotels of the world.”
The Old Post Office was constructed before Congress imposed height limitations in the District of Columbia in 1910. The building is 315 feet high, exceeded only by the 329-foot-tall Basilica of the National Shrine of Immaculate Conception. The city’s tallest building, at 555 feet, is the Washington Monument, another landmark that juts above the city’s low skyline.
“It has such incredible potential and has been totally underutilized,” enthused Ivanka Trump, executive vice president for development and acquisitions for the Trump Organization and Mr. Trump’s daughter, who is perhaps better known for her lines of women’s jewelry, shoes and handbags.
“You just couldn’t build something like this today,” she said, “having a nine-story glass-top atrium, having solid granite turrets, the level of detail carved into the stone. There is unbelievable wainscoting detail and incredibly intricate molding.”
Ms. Trump, who attended Georgetown University and graduated from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, has been intimately involved in planning the interior renovation of what will formally be known as Trump International Hotel, the Old Post Office Building. The project will also incorporate an adjacent annex built in the 1980s, to include a 13,000-square-foot ballroom and 36,000 square feet of meeting space.
The main building will have 271 rooms — prices to be determined — including two “presidential” suites in the former postmaster general’s office, 3,600 and 5,000 square feet in size.
The hotel rooms “will be the largest of any of the rooms in D.C.,” Mr. Trump said. “We have on average 16-foot ceilings — unheard-of in a hotel — and soaring double-bay windows. You look at these four-to-five-feet-thick granite walls. Today, you couldn’t even buy a piece of it. When the U.S. was so rich, this is the way they would build them.”
While the Trump hotel portfolio numbers nine at the moment, the addition of hotels in Vancouver, Rio de Janeiro and the Old Post Office will bring the number to 12 by 2016. The Old Post Office will include street-level restaurants, a cafe and a library. Its atrium is to have a fitness center, the 4,000-square-foot Mar-a-Lago spa by Ivanka Trump, and meeting space.
“It’s a beautiful, historic, iconic building right on America’s Main Street,” said Dan M. Tangherlini, administrator of the General Services Administration. “But the truth is, it’s not useful as an office building in the 21st century. It was best to find a private sector partner to redevelop and put it to better economic use.”
Why Trump? Mr. Tangherlini, who became the agency’s acting administrator in April 2012 and administrator last July, said, “It was a combination of the viability of the business plan, the quality of the commitment to preserving the asset and a sense that this was the best deal on the table for the American taxpayer.”
The Trump Organization has been involved in other renovations of historic properties, including the Hotel Delmonico in Manhattan and the former Mar-A-Lago estate of Marjorie Merriweather Post in Palm Beach. The lease with the G.S.A. for the Old Post Office calls for Trump to pay the government $3 million a year in rent from the hotel’s opening date, with additional payments tied to the Consumer Price Index.
In addition, Trump will be paying “possessory interest” taxes to the District of Columbia. Trump has also applied to the Internal Revenue Service for a 20 percent federal preservation tax credit on money spent on the renovation.
(The “possessory interest” tax is in lieu of property tax, since the building will continue to be federally owned and therefore exempted from Washington property taxes. This is something the district created in 2000 to obtain money from private entities conducting business on tax-exempt government-owned properties. This tax is calculated at the same rate as Washington’s commercial property tax based on assessed value. At this time, it is difficult to say what that would be.)
Uniquely, Trump will be mostly investing its own equity in the project, rather than relying primarily on outside financing. “Much of it will be cash up front,” Mr. Trump said.
After the hotel’s grand reopening, the National Park Service, which has had a small presence at the building, will continue to maintain a modest museum about the structure and to take tourists on an elevator to its 270-foot high observation deck for sweeping views of the nation’s capital.
One floor below the viewing portals, the 10 Congress Bells will still be rang every Thursday night by 40 members of the Washington Ringing Society, as they have been since 1983.
As if restoring the Old Post Office were not enough, the Trumps also have their eyes on the Federal Bureau of Investigation building a block away, on the opposite side of Pennsylvania Avenue. The General Services Administration is looking to turn over the Brutalist building to a developer in return for land elsewhere in the area on which to build a new F.B.I. headquarters.
“We’ve been looking at that closely,” Ms. Trump said. “Our first priority is the Old Post Office, but there is tremendous potential with the F.B.I.”
At the Eastern States Regional in Manhattan last month, the winners of the main pair event on the second day, May 22, were Augie Boehm and Donald Simmons of New York City. They finished 0.75 match points ahead of Deborah Murphy of San Francisco and Gary Donner of Bluffton, S.C. Third were R. Jay Becker of New York City and Ron Smith of Las Vegas.
The diagramed deal from the second session was decisive. At the time, Boehm (South) was confident that he and his partner needed some good results to have a chance to win.
Simmons (North) opened one diamond, and East used the Unusual No-Trump to show at least 5-5 in hearts and clubs, the two lowest-ranking unbid suits. First, South doubled to indicate values and to see what the other players would do. Then, when three hearts came back to him, South bid three no-trump, hoping that no-trump would garner as many tricks as spades.
West led a heart. East won with his ace and returned the suit.
Declarer could see that the pairs in spades would take 11 tricks, losing only to East’s aces. So South needed to win at least 11 tricks, when 460 would outscore 450.
Declarer played a diamond to dummy’s ace, then ran the spades. At the end, South took the diamond finesse and ended with 12 tricks: seven spades, one heart and four diamonds.
Plus 490 was a cold top, 17 match points out of 17. Plus 430 would have been worth only 11 match points and dropped Boehm and Simmons to third.
A common defense against the Unusual No-Trump is called Unusual versus Unusual. When the auction starts one of a suit — two no-trump, showing at least 5-5 in the two lowest-ranking unbid suits — the responder uses cue-bids in the intervenor’s suits to show good hands (at least game-invitational values) in the other two suits. The cheaper cue-bid ties to the lower-ranking of the other two suits, and the higher cue-bid ties to the higher-ranking of the other two suits.
In the auction in the diagramed deal, where the intervener shows hearts and clubs, the responder may choose from the following bids:
■ Three clubs: a good hand (at least game-invitational) with diamond support.
■ Three diamonds: purely competitive (typically 6 to 9 points, the values for a single raise).
■ Three hearts: a good hand with five-plus spades.
■ Three spades: natural but nonforcing (six-plus spades and some 6 to 9 points).
Finally, a jump cue-bid by responder is a splinter, showing game-forcing values, good support for partner’s suit and at most a singleton in the jump cue-bid suit.
CHICAGO — There was a collective sigh of relief when Donald Trump opened his 92-story hotel and condominium tower here six years ago. 
Absent the gold and glitz that some had expected from the publicity-loving developer, the glass-and-steel structure was applauded for its elegance, and quickly embraced as the second-tallest building in a city that prizes its architecture. 
But Mr. Trump was not finished. 
As crews installed the final letter of a new sign for the building on Thursday, some Chicagoans were kicking themselves for being foolish enough to think that Mr. Trump would resist stamping his name in lights above the Chicago River. 
Twenty feet tall and backlit by LEDs, five stainless-steel letters — T-R-U-M-P — are set to become a fixture in the cityscape. And they have caught the eye and the ire of the only other personality in Chicago big enough to rival Mr. Trump: Mayor Rahm Emanuel.
“Mayor Emanuel believes this is an architecturally tasteful building scarred by an architecturally tasteless sign,” Kelley Quinn, the mayor’s spokeswoman, said in a statement on Thursday. She acknowledged that the sign had been approved by the City Council last year, but said that Mr. Emanuel had instructed Mr. Trump’s office to determine any “options available for further changes.” 
The building, the Trump International Hotel & Tower, was once intended to be the tallest building in Chicago, surpassing the Willis Tower, an ambition that was eventually scaled back to its current 1,392-foot form. The building, designed by the Chicago architect Adrian Smith, replaced a squat Chicago Sun-Times building with aging yellow lettering. 
The 12th-tallest building in the world, the tower was constructed of 30 miles’ worth of glass that rockets into the sky, surrounded by some of Chicago’s most famous architectural accomplishments. On one side sits the historic Wrigley Building and Tribune Tower; on the other is the corncob-shaped Marina City.
“Look at all these buildings; none of them have names on them,” said Cole O’Beirne, 25, who works for a company that gives kayak tours of the city’s architecture. He said it was only a matter of time before Mr. Trump brought his self-promotional style to Chicago, a Midwestern metropolis that shies away from such East Coast swagger. 
“It’s very New York,” he said about the Trump sign. “It’s very flashy.” 
Mr. Trump has robustly defended his decision, calling the sign popular among his fans and good for Chicago’s image.
“I do think Chicago has far bigger problems than this sign,” he said in an interview on Thursday, adding that he had originally wanted the sign to be bigger and predicting that the five letters could become an iconic symbol for the city, on par with the Hollywood sign in Los Angeles. 
“Trump is the hottest brand there is,” he said. “It doesn’t get any hotter in the world.” 
Statements like that have made some Chicagoans relieved that the Trump insignia, illuminated white after sunset, was not more ostentatious.
Still, even during the lunch hour, the sign was impossible to ignore. On a nearby bridge, tourists took pictures with the building on their cellphones. Joggers, dog walkers and other residents stopped to gaze up, some mourning the change in their cityscape. 
“They spoiled it,” said Paola Robledo, 35, who was walking her two young children in a stroller and called the move narcissistic. “I think it looks cheap.” 
Ashley Marie Laracey and Troy Louis Schumacher, dancers with the New York City Ballet, were married Saturday at the home of Darren Henault and Michael Bassett, friends of the couple, in Millbrook, N.Y. The officiant was David Prottas, another dancer with the company who became a minister of American Marriage Ministries for the occasion.
Ms. Laracey, 31, is keeping her name. She is a soloist who had four debuts in May and earlier this month in works by George Balanchine. She is also studying for a degree in communications and business at Fordham. She is the daughter of Dawn S. Laracey and Thomas A. Laracey of Crossville, Tenn.
Mr. Schumacher, 27, is in the corps de ballet and performed the role of Puck this season in “A Midsummer Night’s Dream.” He is also the founder and the director of BalletCollective, a nonprofit dance company in New York that performed a ballet he choreographed, “The Impulse Wants Company,” last August at the Joyce Theater in New York. He is studying for a degree in arts management at Fordham.
He is a son of Carol Bischoff Dugan of Ventnor, N.J., and Robert Schumacher of Marietta, Ga., and a stepson of Joyce Resnick and of John Dugan.
Ms. Laracey was 19 and Mr. Schumacher was 15 when they met while they were living in the School of American Ballet dorms at Lincoln Center.
“Who is that?” he recalled asking one of his friends when he spotted Ms. Laracey leaving an elevator in the lobby of their dorm.
They never hung out together at the dorm, but he became a big fan of hers, he said, as he watched her perform on stage. Their relationship at that point was limited to exchanging messages online about ballet and performances.
“I wasn’t interested in boys until I was 24,” she said. “There was no room in my brain. I was focused on my career.” But she did notice that he had a good eye for ballet and came to trust and appreciate his opinions on their art.
In 2003 she moved out of the dorm. She followed her father’s advice to never answer when someone came unexpectedly knocking at her door. She and Mr. Schumacher continued to chat online, but it wasn’t until each was sidelined with injuries — and bored — that they began spending time together, sometimes watching movies at her apartment.
“I kept on hoping, and sent signals,” Mr. Schumacher said of their relationship, which was still platonic.
After leaving her apartment one day, he did an about-face at the elevator. “It was a whole romantic-comedy moment,” he said. “I marched back to her apartment, took a deep breath and knocked. She wasn’t expecting anyone.” So, just as her father had warned, she did not answer the door.
“Later that night, she called me and asked if it was me, and I confessed my love for her,” Mr. Schumacher said. “She let me down gently, and that was the end of our interaction for a year and a half.”
In November 2006 they both were dancing in a production of “Romeo and Juliet” and found they were subtly flirting with each other. This led to more than a year of on-and-off dates.
“I was interested in ballet and not a boyfriend,” she said.
Yet their relationship did grow into a serious one, and in 2008 they moved in together.
In 2013, Mr. Schumacher decided it was time to propose and planned on doing so when they would be on tour in Europe that March. But that plan fell apart when two other couples on the tour, including one of Ms. Laracey’s best friends, became engaged.
“This of course led to several lighthearted discussions about our future,” he said. “I told her it was coming, but that I needed a couple years.”
Then in April, he took her to the sidewalk in front of her old apartment building and said to her, “ ‘Remember when you didn’t open the door?’ I thought it would be cute to re-enact that scene — ‘but could you open the door this time?’ ”
She played along and closed her eyes as instructed. When he said, “knock, knock,” she opened her eyes to find him on one knee. 
Investors jumped on a wave of strong corporate financial results Friday, propelling stocks higher for the third time in five days.
The gains wiped out much of the market’s losses from the day before, when the downing of a Malaysia Airlines jet in eastern Ukraine and Israel’s invasion of Gaza dominated the headlines.
Those worries appeared to ease Friday, and investors turned their attention to encouraging company earnings.
“Typically when these events hit the news, it’s kind of a sell-now, ask-questions-later moment, and then there is a reassessment, and that’s exactly what we had,” said Quincy Krosby, market strategist at Prudential Financial. 
Signs of a rebound appeared early. The major stock indexes edged higher in premarket trading, and strong earnings from several companies kept the market in positive territory. The Conference Board’s latest index of leading indicators, meant to predict the economy’s trajectory, stoked the market further. The index climbed in June for the fifth consecutive month. 
The market built steadily on its gains throughout the day, reversing nearly all of Thursday’s losses and putting the three major indexes ahead for the week.
The Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index added 20.10 points, or 1 percent, to 1,978.22. The Dow rose 123.37 points, or 0.7 percent, to 17,100.18. The Nasdaq gained 668.70 points, or 1.6 percent, to 4,432.15.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.48 percent from 2.44 percent late Thursday, while its price dropped 11/32, to 100 5/32.
All 10 sectors in the S.&P. 500 rose, led by health care. Gilead Sciences notched the biggest gain among the 500 companies in the index, rising $4.12, or 4.8 percent, to $89.19. Nvidia fell the most, shedding 86 cents, or 4.5 percent, to $18.44. The health care sector is up 10.6 percent this year. 
Investors largely looked through the geopolitical hot spots this week in part because company earnings have been favorable, said Terry Sandven, chief equity strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management. “Despite heightened political issues on the horizon, the path of least resistance for equities is still up,” he said. 
Late Thursday, Google reported higher earnings and revenue, even as advertising rates continued to drop. Its stock added $24.29, or 4.2 percent, to $605.11.
Honeywell International gained $1.65, or 1.7 percent, to $96.82 after reporting that its income rose sharply in the latest quarter and beat forecasts.
The furniture and accessories company Knoll and the semiconductor maker Skyworks Solutions also got a lift from quarterly results that exceeded Wall Street’s expectations. Knoll jumped $1.18, or 7 percent, to $18.15, while Skyworks rose $6.53, or 14.1 percent, to $52.87.
Banks have mostly reported strong second-quarter results. Huntington Bancshares was no exception, reporting stronger earnings and net interest income. Its shares added 45 cents, or 4.8 percent, to $9.75.
The second poker chip dropped for Trump Entertainment Resorts on Tuesday, when the company filed for bankruptcy protection and threatened to close the Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City by Thanksgiving if it failed to cut expenses drastically.
The gambling company is already set to shut down its only other property, Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino, in a week, making it the fourth casino to close this year on the Atlantic City boardwalk.
Trump Taj Mahal, once the largest and most glamorous of the city’s casinos, had begun to look frayed around the edges in recent years.
The white-towered casino, like the other casinos in Atlantic City, has been buffeted by competition from dozens of newer gambling halls that have opened in Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and West Virginia.
The closing of the Taj Mahal, with about 2,800 employees, would bring the casino job losses in the city to over 8,000 this year, although some employees may find work at the remaining seven casinos.
Trump Entertainment issued a statement on Tuesday afternoon saying that “absent significant expense reductions, the Trump Taj Mahal is expected to close on or shortly after Nov. 13.”
Reports of the possible closing began circulating on Monday, the same day that Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, convened a meeting of elected officials, casino executives and union leaders on the future of Atlantic City.
“We were all challenged to come up with new ideas,” said James Whelan, a state senator and a former mayor of the city who attended the meeting. “But it seems the momentum is in the opposite direction, at this point.
“This means a whole bunch of other people are getting put out of work with nothing else on the horizon,” added Mr. Whelan, a Democrat. “You now have the possibility of five empty buildings on the boardwalk.”
State and city officials are eager to attract nightclubs, restaurants, entertainment venues and conventions to Atlantic City to offset the loss of casinos and attract nongamblers. But they have found it hard to stay ahead of the bad news this year.
In its bankruptcy filing in Delaware, Trump Entertainment indicated that it would have to close if it failed to gain concessions from union workers at the Taj Mahal, which brought an angry response from labor leaders.
But the company’s problems go well beyond labor issues. Trump Entertainment did not pay millions of dollars in property taxes last month, and, the company said, it will not be able to pay off more than $285 million in bonds.
“If our members were to work for minimum wage with no benefits, it wouldn’t be enough to keep this property in the hands of its current owners for a year,” Bob McDevit, president of Unite Here Local 54, said in a statement. “Trump’s management failed to capitalize on over $130 million in gaming revenue so far this year from Taj Mahal. Fundamental to Trump’s problems is the fact that the company had almost $300 million in debt.”
The union’s bargaining committee unanimously rejected Trump Entertainment’s demands last week for cuts in wages and health and retirement benefits.
Still, some Wall Street analysts were taken aback by the announcement that the Taj Mahal would close. 
With the Revel, Atlantic Club, Showboat and Trump Plaza casinos shutting down this year, analysts expected that the remaining casinos would be able to capture their customers.
“The closure is a bit of a surprise,” said Alex Bumazhny, an analyst who follows casino companies for Fitch Ratings, a bond-rating agency. “The property is almost breaking even and will benefit from the closure of Trump Plaza.”
The current and former owners of the Trump casino properties are no strangers to bankruptcy court. Trump Entertainment has struggled since it emerged from bankruptcy in 2010. The billionaire investor Carl C. Ic ahn holds a $289 million loan, making him the company’s largest secured creditor.
Donald J. Trump, who still owns a small piece of the company but has no control over it, recently sought to strip the casinos of his name.
Last year, Mr. Icahn blocked Trump Entertainment from selling Trump Plaza to a California company for $20 million, saying it was worth more. Mr. Icahn, who already controls the Tropicana casino, may be looking to scoop up the two Trump properties as well.
“I suspect there’s something going on with Icahn and the debt holders in terms of trying to gain control of the equity,” said Chad C. Beynon, a gambling analyst with the Macquarie Group.
MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin did his best to paint a rosy picture of the Russian economy in a speech to business leaders on Thursday, saying the country remains “open to the world” and has a plan for growth in spite of American and European sanctions.
Appearing relaxed and joking with the financiers gathered for a banking conference, Mr. Putin tried to soothe worries that Russia is hemorrhaging money in capital flight, headed into a deep recession with rising inflation and a collapsing ruble and, according to stubborn rumors, preparing to impose capital controls if investors continue to take money out of the country.
Russia is well prepared to hold out against hard times, he said, because of its still-sizable foreign currency reserves of about $460 billion. To attract investment, he said jokingly as he began a question-and-answer session, “all I have to do is smile and show the devil is not as frightening as he seems.”
Russia will rely on its reserves to substitute for foreign lending, Mr. Putin said, while stimulating domestic agriculture to put food on the country’s tables in place of Western grocery imports the Kremlin itself banned in tit-for-tat sanctions.
Money from one of Russia’s sovereign wealth funds, the Direct Investment Fund, can be channeled into investment for businesses cut off from Western financing by the sanctions, he added.
He said Russia remained committed to an “open” economy, denied rumors about capital controls and accused the United States and Europe of violating the spirit of the World Trade Organization in imposing sanctions over the Ukraine conflict. Mr. Putin called the sanctions, which single out wealthy individuals and politically connected banks and businesses, “utter foolishness.”
“Yes, we see strong fluctuations on the currency market,” Mr. Putin said. “But I will underscore the most important thing: The fundamental factors supporting stability are very strong, very reliable. This is a nearly deficit-free budget, significant reserves and strong current account balance,” he said.
Mr. Putin’s assurances notwithstanding, most economists say Russia’s macroeconomic underpinnings are shaky. The World Bank projects the economy will grow by only 0.5 percent this year and even less next year. Russia’s former finance minister, Aleksei L. Kudrin, said last month that $110 billion has left Russia in capital flight since the crisis in Ukraine erupted.
The ruble, wobbly in the best of times, dropped to its lowest level against the dollar since the hyperinflation of the early 1990s, before rallying a bit this week. And Russia’s stock market is down about 3 percent this year, in contrast to about 9 percent growth in stock markets globally, according to an index of world equities compiled by Morgan Stanley.
Russia’s economy is deeply dependent on oil and gas revenue, which accounts for about 50 percent of the budget and 60 percent of exports. But oil prices have plunged lately, reaching their lowest level in two years and, according to most analysts, heading even lower, as American production surges.
Even senior Russian economic officials, in presentations just preceding Mr. Putin’s, sounded notes that were jarringly different from their leader’s.
The minister of the economy, Aleksei V. Ulyukayev, described a Russia mired in stagflation, with an inflation rate of 8 percent and growth of less than 1 percent. The chief economist of VTB, a state-owned bank, has estimated that the Western sanctions trimmed about 1 percent of growth from the gross domestic product, or about $20 billion.
Elvira S. Nabiullina, the head of the central bank, rued that after just completing an investor-friendly overhaul of the system for clearing stock market trades, there were currently few foreign investors to make use of it. 
“For all this to work like a financial center,” Russia also needs investors, Ms. Nabiullina said.
Most striking, German O. Gref, a former minister of the economy and the head of Russia’s largest retail bank, Sberbank, delivered a scathing critique of the government’s economic policies, wondering why the country was turning again to a state-led model of economic development.
The Soviet Union broke apart, he said, because of the “mind-boggling incompetence of the Soviet leadership. They did not respect the laws of economic development.” Half the Russian economy is already in monopolized industries, Mr. Gref said. “You cannot motivate people through the gulag, like in the Soviet Union.”
EVANSTON, Ill. — President Obama, outlining a campaign message for his party a month before the midterm elections, used a visit to his home state on Thursday to highlight the country’s economic growth and to make his case on a handful of issues that are important to Democrats in November.
“I am not on the ballot this fall,” Mr. Obama said in an address at Northwestern University here. “But make no mistake, these policies are on the ballot. Every single one of them.”
The president argued that the issues he was highlighting — raising the minimum wage, ensuring equal pay for women and requiring paid family leave for workers — would help the economy. But the speech was also intended to help Democratic candidates who are nervous about their prospects and have been eager for Mr. Obama to frame their arguments against the Republicans on a national stage. 
Mr. Obama has been focused for months on foreign policy, particularly the fight against the militants of the Islamic State, and his speech on Thursday signified his return to the domestic political fray.  
“Obviously, recent months have seen their fair share of turmoil around the globe,” he said.  
He cast the United States’ central role in international crises in upbeat terms, using muscular language to reassure voters at a turbulent moment in history, a time of terrorist beheadings, the arrival of the Ebola virus on America’s shores and the controversy over the Secret Service’s ability to keep the White House, and the president, safe.  
“When alarms go off somewhere in the world, this is who the world calls — America,” the president said in a speech that lasted a little less than an hour. “They don’t call Moscow. They don’t call Beijing. They call us. We welcome that responsibility and leadership. That’s who we are.”
But Mr. Obama’s focus on Thursday was on the economy, recounting, as he often has, the country’s comeback from the Great Recession.  
“What I want people to know is that there are some really good things happening in America,” he said, ticking off progress in energy self-sufficiency, manufacturing numbers, health care costs and other areas. He portrayed Republicans as consumed with tax cuts for the wealthy rather than the middle-class, reflecting the two parties’ “starkly different visions for this country.” 
Republicans derided the event as a political ploy. “Thirty-three days before the midterm elections, President Obama is very transparently trying to refocus his party as their approval ratings continue to plummet, but he isn’t fooling anyone,” said Kirsten Kukowski, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee.
Mr. Obama made only a halfhearted attempt at denying that his return home to the Chicago area was aimed at rallying Democrats. “I’m not going to tell you who to vote for, although I suppose it’s kind of implied,” he said to laughter. 
Later, in a speech in Washington, Mr. Obama sought to energize Hispanic voters even as he acknowledged his failure to change the nation’s immigration laws. “I know there’s deep frustration in many communities around the country right now, and I understand that frustration because I share it,” he said at a dinner hosted by the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute. “I am not going to give up this fight until it gets done.”
Mr. Obama promised to take executive action to fix the immigration system before the end of the year. He had vowed to do so by summer’s end, but said last month that he would wait, a decision that was criticized as a political maneuver.
During his Illinois visit, Mr. Obama was welcomed by the state’s top Democratic officials, unlike in states where his popularity has sagged. The president was joined in Evanston by Senator Richard Durbin, the second-ranking Democrat in the Senate, and Gov. Pat Quinn, both of whom are up for re-election next month.
Mr. Obama, after spending Wednesday night in his own home on Chicago’s South Side, began the day at a $50,000-per-person fund-raiser for Mr. Quinn that was attended by about 25 people — but no reporters — in a high-rise overlooking Lake Michigan on the city’s Gold Coast. 
Mr. Quinn said the president praised his grit, a welcome endorsement for a governor whose approval ratings are low and who is facing a difficult campaign against a businessman, Bruce Rauner.  
“He likes the fact that I’m a ‘grinder,’ ” Mr. Quinn said in an interview.
Mr. Obama remains popular here among core Democratic constituencies, and Mr. Quinn is unapologetic in his embrace of the president. “It’s an immense help to have him here,” said Mr. Quinn, adding that he hoped Mr. Obama would return for a campaign rally before Nov. 4.
Mr. Durbin, who is not expected to face much difficulty at the polls, said much the same.
“If we can narrow this down and focus on the economy and its future,” he said, “we’ll have a better chance of winning.”
MIAMI BEACH — As she planned her run for the Florida House of Representatives this year, Kristin Jacobs told her team that she wanted her campaign to address the effects of climate change. Her advisers were initially skeptical, noting that voters typically said they cared about the environment, but considered the issue less urgent than the economy and health care.
Ms. Jacobs, a commissioner for Broward County, pressed her case, arguing that few issues were more critical to residents of southeast Florida than street flooding at high tide — sometimes even on sunny days — and ocean water seeping into their drinking water. “It’s how you ask the question,” she said. “Is clean water important to you?”
Voters have answered yes so far, handing Ms. Jacobs a victory in the Democratic primary in August with more than 76 percent of the vote. Opinion polls suggest she will cruise to victory in November.
The results were “shocking,” said Steven J. Vancore, a pollster and political consultant advising Ms. Jacobs.
While politicians are increasingly willing to include environmental messages in their campaigns, many at the national level still steer clear of the politically charged topic of climate change. But in communities across the country where the effects are lapping at the doorsteps of residents, pragmatism often trumps politics, and candidates as well as elected officials across the political spectrum are embracing the issue.
Some local Republican officials in Florida and elsewhere say they can no longer follow the lead of state and national party leaders like Senator Marco Rubio and Gov. Rick Scott, who have publicly questioned whether human activity has had an effect on climate change. (Though both have recently taken a more vague “I’m not a scientist” stance.) The Center for American Progress Action Fund, a left-leaning advocacy group in Washington, tracks the statements of American political figures on climate change and reports that more than 58 percent of Republicans in Congress have denied a link between human activity and global warming.
But in the Florida Keys, George Neugent, a Republican county commissioner, said that while people might disagree about what to do about climate change, the effects of flooding and hurricanes were less ambiguous. “Clearly rising tides are going to affect us,” he said.
That is leading to discussions about a broad range of possible responses, including elevating roads and switching the Bermuda grass at the local golf course to paspalum, which tolerates salty water.
“I have to be very careful when I say some things, especially to the skeptics,” Mr. Neugent said, adding that he avoided arguments about the science of climate change. “It’s not worth the effort or the time to prove what clearly is a factual situation. We’re living with it.”
James Brainard, the Republican mayor of Carmel, Ind., has sought to be active on climate change issues. The city has reduced its energy use with fuel-efficient city cars and small trucks, LED lighting and so-called green buildings. It also pipes the methane gas from the treatment of wastewater into boilers that help produce so-called biosolids that can be used as fertilizer.
“I don’t think we want to be the party that believes in dirty air and dirty water,” Mr. Brainard said, noting that the Environmental Protection Agency was founded under President Richard M. Nixon, a Republican. Despite the broad agreement among scientists on climate change, he added, “the problem in D.C. is that a lot of people are making a lot of money keeping people mad at each other.”
Bob Inglis, a former Republican congressman from South Carolina who is working to get members of his party to accept climate change and identify solutions, said his argument was not a hard sell for local officials “who are in the business of fixing things, not just talking about them.” His hope, he added, is that the viewpoint “eventually percolates up to the people making grand pronouncements.”
Across the United States, a growing number of state and local governments are pulling together plans to deal with the effects of climate change, as a new tracking tool from the Georgetown Climate Center at Georgetown University Law Center shows.
The Obama administration, hoping to build on momentum at the local level, has created a task force of state and local officials who are active on the issues. Ms. Jacobs and Mr. Brainard are members. The group is preparing a report for the federal government this fall, with hundreds of recommendations for local action and a national role.
Commissioner Paula Brooks of Franklin County, Ohio, which includes Columbus, the state capital, said there had been a 37 percent increase in flooding in the area since 1958, as heavy rains have overwhelmed aging drainage systems.
The runoff from such rains has carried fertilizer into Lake Erie, contributing to an algae crisis that forced Toledo, Ohio, to ban the use of tap water for several days in August.
“I really see this as a very bipartisan issue that people are interested in talking about,” said Ms. Brooks, a Democrat who also serves on Mr. Obama’s climate task force. “These weather impacts are coming home to roost.”
Patsy Parker, the mayor of Perdido Beach, Ala., said ruinous flooding in April washed away roads and left a gully 12 feet deep. As much as 30 inches of rain fell. That the town is by the Gulf of Mexico makes it especially vulnerable to hurricanes.
Ms. Parker is also a member of the president’s climate change task force, but she said that being on the panel had not bolstered her popularity in the predominantly Republican region of southern Alabama.
She claims no party affiliation, and says that she does not talk about climate change with her constituents, nor about whether the weather crises might get worse. Discussing climate change in a community like hers, she said, just stirs people up.
“I leave that conversation up to the experts,” she added, “the scientists who have much more knowledge and training than I do.”
Ms. Parker does welcome interest in protecting Perdido Beach from the ravages of severe weather. “Even if it gets no worse, it’s bad enough that we need to do what we can,” she said.
But climate change has drawn significant interest in South Florida. This month, more than 600 people attended the Southeast Florida Climate Leadership Summit in Miami Beach, where Ms. Jacobs of Broward County and other officials from the region described their work on more than 100 environmental initiatives. The projects are intended to make that part of the state more resilient and energy efficient, and to protect groundwater from creeping salinization.
John P. Holdren, Mr. Obama’s science adviser, and Mike Boots, who leads the Council on Environmental Quality at the White House, attended the event in a show of support.
“You simply don’t have time to endure the incredibly frustrating political debate that is consuming a lot of the oxygen in the city where we work,” Mr. Boots, referring to Washington, told the attendees in Miami Beach. “You’re acting.”
ATLANTIC CITY — The owner of the struggling Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort filed court papers on Friday saying it would close next month, making it the fifth of this city’s 12 casinos to shut down this year.
In filing a revised reorganization plan in Delaware bankruptcy court, Trump Entertainment Resorts said its board had approved a shutdown of the casino by Dec. 12. It had threatened to close by then if its main union did not drop its appeal of a court-ordered cost-savings package.
The company said it would close because it had not received the state and local tax breaks it had sought in a bid to keep the Taj Mahal open.
“The debtors have initiated appropriate steps to cease operations at the Taj Mahal consistent with that time frame,” Trump Entertainment lawyers wrote.
Company officials declined to comment on Friday afternoon.
With the union appealing a bankruptcy court’s order terminating its collective bargaining agreement and the company’s pension funding obligations and New Jersey officials refusing to grant tax concessions, the Taj Mahal’s 3,000 workers will soon join some 8,000 other Atlantic City casino workers who have lost their jobs this year.
Mayor Don Guardian said he knew this was a difficult time for all the people who would be out of work. “I want them to know that the city of Atlantic City did everything they could to help keep the Trump Taj Mahal open,” he said. He added, however, that the company and its officials “still must pay their fair share of taxes, just like our residents do.”
SANTIAGO, Chile — Eco-warriors on the front lines of climate diplomacy often frame the environmental conflict between the developed and the developing world as a version of the notorious skirmish between Lawrence H. Summers and José Lutzenberger, which happened on the sidelines of the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, widely seen as the official start of the world’s interest in climate change.
Mr. Summers, then chief economist of the World Bank, had lent his signature to a leaked memo making the case that poor countries would make an efficient dump for the trash of the rich. 
“The economic logic behind dumping a load of toxic waste in the lowest wage country is impeccable and we should face up to that,” the memo  argued. Mr. Lutzenberger, an iconoclastic agronomist who was then Brazil’s environmental minister, responded that Mr. Summers’s reasoning “is perfectly logical but totally insane.”
It can be tempting to understand the greenhouse gas negotiations this week in Lima, Peru, in the same light: a clash between developing countries fighting to preserve their vulnerable environments from the rich representatives of multinational capitalism who want to exploit them.
But the brawl between the American economist and the Brazilian environmentalist is the wrong historical precedent.
Particularly these days, Brazil doesn’t want its environment protected from development. Stunned by an abrupt slowdown in economic growth over the last three years, it urgently wants its environment exploited, whether this means offering cheaper gas to encourage driving or investing trillions in developing its oil reserves.
“There is a strategic vision in Brazil that it must close the gap that still separates it from rich, developed countries,” said Sérgio Leitão, head of public policy for Greenpeace in São Paulo. “To do that it must burn its natural capital, which is what Americans and Europeans did.”
Indeed, the relevant precedent happened two decades before the Rio Summit, in 1972, when the United Nations organized its first-ever environmental summit meeting in Sweden.
In the midst of what was called its “economic miracle,” Brazil was that year inaugurating the Trans-Amazonian highway. It was planning a mega-dam on the Paraná River at Itaipú and building a nuclear power plant at Angra dos Reis. Brazil not only saw no purpose in protecting its indigenous forests — it even offered tax incentives to replace them with lucrative Caribbean pine and eucalyptus.
Pollution meant progress. Brazil wouldn’t be hoodwinked by conservation proposals that just aimed to keep it in poverty. In Stockholm, João Paulo dos Reis Veloso, the representative of Brazil’s military government, invited investors from around the world to “Come pollute Brazil!”
Grudgingly, perhaps, rich countries have accepted the notion that poorer countries that emit much less CO2 should be given a break to cut emissions more slowly — or in some cases not at all — and should be provided with cash and technology to help them limit their carbon footprint.
Yet as calls for substantial and immediate emissions cuts have grown more intense, environmental advocates and allied policy makers seem to be losing sight of developing countries’ nonnegotiable constraint: They will not agree to grow less.
The tension between climate and development crops up all over Latin America. Chile, poor in fossil fuels and rich in wind and sun, might seem like a natural base for a low-carbon economy. 
Yet Aldo Cerda, who heads corporate affairs at the country’s budding climate exchange, says the intensity of Chile’s carbon use is set to grow significantly over the next 15 years.
The tension is also evident in Peru, host of the climate change talks, where the government watered down environmental regulations over the summer to try to pump up flagging growth.
“Peru is still a work in progress,” said Joe Keenan, who heads the Nature Conservancy in Latin America. “Some people in the government are trying to put together a forest protection plan. But there are also plans to put new highways into the Amazon.”
Resolving this tension is proving difficult, at best. Take the report issued this year by the United Nations Sustainable Development Solutions Network. It worked on the assumption that every country would cut annual carbon emissions from energy to only 1.6 tons per person by 2050. 
Brazil, where emissions from energy rose to almost 2.4 tons per person last year, is unlikely to agree to that anytime soon.
“Brazilians are very far from understanding that the climate question is an obstacle that slows Brazil’s exploitation of natural resources,” Mr. Leitão, the Greenpeace representative, told me. “On the contrary, Brazil believes that it still has the right to some quota of increased emissions.”
In a 2012 study, Elizabeth A. Stanton, an environmental economist at Synapse Energy Economics, noted that projections by the International Energy Agency, on which leading climate models are based, assume that the least developed countries will fail to close the prosperity gap with the rich of the world.
Income per person in the world’s poorest countries — about one-27th of that of people in the rich world — would inch ahead to one-20th in the year 2105.
“This assumption — that economic development will fail in the poorest countries — results in lower business-as-usual global emissions, allowing emissions reduction targets to be less stringent in richer countries,” she wrote. “What if low-income countries experience genuine economic development?” 
The world’s poorest countries may well fail to overcome their misery. Still, the development imperative will beat the climate imperative every time.
Brazil, by some accounts, is the fourth  largest contributor to climate change after the United States, China and Russia. At the Copenhagen climate summit meeting in 2009, it promised deep cuts to CO2 and, until recently, it was well on track to deliver.
Deforestation in the Amazon — the country’s main contribution to climate change — slowed sharply. Even as mineral and agricultural exports powered an economic boom that brought almost 25 million Brazilians out of poverty, greenhouse gas emissions fell by almost half from 2004 to 2012.
But when Brazil’s fast-paced economy got stuck last year, concerns about the environment dropped down the priority list.
A tax on gasoline was slashed in hopes of priming the economic pump, a decision that removed ethanol’s competitive advantage. A slump in hydroelectric power generation caused by a persistent drought was met by a sustained investment in gas and coal. 
And greenhouse gas emissions rose by nearly 8 percent in 2013 compared to the year before.
“Until 2010 we had both high growth and falling emissions,” noted Tasso Azevedo, former director of the Environment Ministry’s National Forest Program and one of the lead designers of Brazil’s plan to combat deforestation. “Today Brazil is in the worst of worlds, emitting more and generating less growth.”
There is evidence that the tension between economic development and climate change is not inevitable. Maybe greenhouse gas emissions can be limited at little or no economic cost. 
Brazil, experts argue, could stop deforestation entirely. “We could double grain production to 350 million tons without felling any more forest,” said Eduardo Assad of the Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation. And Brazil’s large ethanol industry still shows enormous promise.
But how and when Brazil and other developing countries commit to a low-carbon path will always depend on whether there is enough growth to keep living standards on the rise.
“We have so many tools to turn things around,” Mr. Assad said.
The question is whether they will draw the needed investment. “This could be solved quickly if we can turn around the economic slowdown,” he said, “but if we can’t overcome the stagnant economy, it’s going to be at a turtle’s pace.”
Jeb Bush’s announcement that he would “actively explore” a 2016 presidential run has been met with healthy skepticism, in no small part because he has staked out positions at odds with the Republican Party’s conservative base.
Mr. Bush’s positions on immigration and education are certainly challenges, but probably overrated ones. Tone and message, not the specifics of his policy agenda, will probably determine whether he can strike the balance necessary to appeal to the party’s donors without losing too much ground among staunch conservatives.
This is not to say that Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, is close to being in touch with the conservative base on immigration reform and education policy. Both issues are probably potent enough to hurt his chances. But he is no iconoclast, not even by the standards of recent Republican nominees, who have overcome greater heresies.
John McCain won the Republican nomination in 2008 by running as a “maverick.” In the years before his campaign, he co-sponsored an immigration reform bill and a plan to regulate carbon emissions. He bashed “extremists on the right” in a previous presidential race.
Four years later, Mitt Romney won the nomination even though he had enacted a health care plan that served as the model for the Affordable Care Act. He had supported a long list of liberal positions in his various runs for statewide office in Massachusetts. Heading into this year’s contest, Chris Christie, another rival for the support of mainline, establishment-friendly Republicans, has committed equal or perhaps graver blasphemies on gun control and immigration.
Mr. Bush may indeed struggle to win Iowa, which leads the Republican nomination process. But he could seriously compete there, unlike Mr. McCain in 2008. The Iowa caucuses are dominated by evangelical voters more than Tea Party voters. They select cultural conservatives, like Mike Huckabee and Rick Santorum. Mr. Bush has solid credentials on cultural issues, so there’s no reason to dismiss his chances there at the outset, even if he’s unlikely to be the candidate of religious activists. Even Mr. Romney, a Mormon who once supported abortion rights, came within 35 votes of winning the Iowa caucuses in 2012.
The real challenge for Mr. Bush is negotiating the competing pressures of the so-called invisible primaries and the actual ones. The invisible primary is the competition for the support of party officials and donors with the influence and money necessary to propel a candidate toward the party’s nomination. A candidate who wins the invisible primary decisively almost always goes on to win the nomination.
Mr. Bush’s biggest asset is the extent to which he seems to appeal to the fairly moderate business-oriented and mainline officials and donors who have outsize influence in the invisible primary. My colleague Nicholas Confessore reported that Mr. Bush was among three candidates whom donors might try to unify behind in the initial stages of the primary. Mr. Bush’s early foray into the field on Tuesday may be an attempt to prevent those donors from consolidating around a different candidate, or even a pre-emptive show of strength to dissuade another candidate, like Mr. Romney, from running to win the same donors.
The catch, of course, is that the source of Mr. Bush’s appeal among the Republican donor class is a message and tone that often seems close to attacking conservatives as ideologues. Mr. Bush suggested that Ronald Reagan would “have a hard time” in today’s Republican Party, and said the party sounded as if it didn’t allow for disagreement among its members. A candidate can get away with a couple of moderate positions; it’s a lot harder to run against the party’s base, like Jon Huntsman in 2012.
It would be one thing if Mr. Bush’s push against the base were heard only at dinner parties on the Upper East Side or in Alexandria, Va., or if Mr. Bush were planning to move a bit toward the right during the primary season. But it doesn’t seem as if either will be true. Another colleague, Jonathan Martin, wrote last week that Mr. Bush didn’t want to alter his “persona to satisfy his party’s hard-liners” if he runs.
This “persona,” perhaps along with his association with his brother’s often activist view of government, is probably creating a bigger problem for Mr. Bush on his right flank than one might guess based on his policies alone.
A Monmouth University poll, published on Tuesday, showed that Mr. Bush held a tepid 39 percent favorability rating among Tea Party supporters, with 38 percent unfavorable — worse than any other major potential nominee except for Chris Christie. He held a better though hardly impressive plus-15 rating among non-Tea Party Republicans. Similarly, a McClatchy/Marist poll showed Mr. Bush with just 8 percent of the vote among Tea Party supporters, enough for fifth place, compared with 21 percent among non-Tea Party supporters (among whom he led).
Mr. Bush could still win even if Tea Party supporters opposed him by a wide margin. Mr. Romney managed to steer down the same narrow path to victory in 2012. It’s a path that starts by consolidating the establishment wing of the party in the invisible primary. It ends by winning a protracted fight against an underfunded conservative opponent who can’t break through in the delegate-rich blue states that are often needed to win the party’s nomination, even though the party struggles to win them in presidential elections.
It is an arduous path to victory. But candidates with the favor of the establishment have won nearly every recent nominating contest for a reason: It brings big advantages. And the Republican establishment doesn’t appear to have too many other choices. If top G.O.P. donors are indeed choosing between Mr. Bush, Mr. Christie and Mr. Romney, they might not have a better option than Mr. Bush.
But Mr. Bush is not a particularly strong candidate either. He may have friends in the donor class, but he hasn’t run for office in a decade, and he enters with no base of support among the G.O.P. primary electorate. He may not be lucky enough to face an opponent as flawed as Mr. Santorum or Mr. Huckabee. This year’s Republican candidates have the potential to be far stronger than in recent cycles, and if one builds momentum, the establishment’s early, anointed pick might not be able to stop him.
When last we saw Beverly and Sean Lincoln, the fictional creators of a British TV hit made unrecognizable by a Hollywood studio, they’d been swept out of fantasyland and back to reality with the cancellation — finally — of “Pucks!” 
Well, that lasted a New York minute. Season 4 of Showtime’s Emmy-nominated “Episodes,” starting Sunday, finds the Lincolns returned to the back lot with the resurrection of their dud that will not die. It’s all part of network one-upmanship after Matt LeBlanc (the character played by the actor of the same name) signs on to star in a potential hit for a competitor. Meanwhile, the Lincolns (Tamsin Greig and Stephen Mangan), envious of the spoils bestowed on their rival, decide to shop their script and incite a bidding war. Carol (Kathleen Rose Perkins) is again passed over for a promotion, this time by the ex-wife of her first boss, whom she slept with, naturally. And Matt learns that his money guy drained him dry. Actually, he didn’t lose everything. But with his assets reduced to just $31 million, that means firing the man who sweeps his beach. And don’t even think of suggesting that he sell his jet. 
Clark Terry, one of the most popular and influential jazz trumpeters of his generation and an enthusiastic advocate of jazz education, died on Saturday in Pine Bluff, Ark. He was 94.
His death was announced by his wife, Gwen.
Mr. Terry was acclaimed for his impeccable musicianship, loved for his playful spirit and respected for his adaptability. Although his sound on both trumpet and the rounder-toned fluegelhorn (which he helped popularize as a jazz instrument) was highly personal and easily identifiable, he managed to fit it snugly into a wide range of musical contexts.
He was one of the few musicians to have worked with the orchestras of both Duke Ellington and Count Basie. He was for many years a constant presence in New York’s recording studios — accompanying singers, sitting in big-band trumpet sections, providing music for radio and television commercials. He recorded with Charles Mingus, Thelonious Monk and other leading jazz artists as well as his own groups.
He was also one of the first black musicians to hold a staff position at a television network and was for many years a mainstay of the “Tonight Show” band, as well as one of the most high-profile proponents of teaching jazz at the college level.
His fellow musicians respected him as an inventive improviser with a graceful and ebullient style, traces of which can be heard in the playing of Miles Davis, Wynton Marsalis and others. But many listeners knew him best for the vocal numbers with which he peppered his performances, a distinctively joyous brand of scat singing in which noises as well as nonsense syllables took the place of words. It was an off-the-cuff recording of one such song, released in 1964 under the name “Mumbles,” that became his signature song.
The high spirits of “Mumbles” were characteristic of Mr. Terry’s approach: More than most jazz musicians of his generation, he was unafraid to fool around. His sense of humor manifested itself in his onstage demeanor as well as in his penchant for growls, slurs and speechlike effects.
Musicians and critics saw beyond the clowning and recognized Mr. Terry’s seriousness of purpose. Stanley Crouch wrote in The Village Voice in 1983 that Mr. Terry “stands as tall in the evolution of his horn as anyone who has emerged since 1940.”
The seventh of 11 children, Clark Terry was born into a poor St. Louis family on Dec. 14, 1920. His mother, the former Mary Scott, died when he was 6, and within a few years he was working odd jobs to help support his family. He became interested in music when he heard the husband of one of his sisters play tuba, and when he was 10 he built himself a makeshift trumpet by attaching a funnel to a garden hose. Neighbors later pitched in to buy him a trumpet from a pawnshop.
His father, Clark Virgil Terry, a gas-company worker, discouraged his interest in music, fearing that there was no future in it, but he persisted. He played valve trombone and trumpet in his high school orchestra and secured his first professional engagement, which paid 75 cents a night, with the help of his tuba-playing brother-in-law.
His career got off to a bumpy start. After working with local bands like Dollar Bill and His Small Change, he joined a traveling carnival and found himself stranded in Hattiesburg, Miss., when it ran out of money.
In 1942 he joined the Navy and was assigned to the band at the Great Lakes Training Station near Chicago. When the war ended, he returned to St. Louis and joined a big band led by George Hudson.
“George put the full weight of the band on me,” he told the jazz historian Stanley Dance in 1961. “I played all the lead and all the trumpet solos, rehearsed the band, suggested numbers, routines and everything.”
The regimen paid off: When the Hudson band played at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, Mr. Terry’s work was heard by some of the most important people in jazz, and he soon had offers. He worked briefly with the bands of the saxophonist Charlie Barnet and the blues singer and saxophonist Eddie Vinson, among others, before joining Count Basie in 1948. Times were getting tough for big bands in the postwar years, and Basie reduced his group from 18 pieces to a septet in 1950, but he retained Mr. Terry. The next year, Duke Ellington called.
It was the opportunity he had been waiting for. Working with Basie, he would say many times, was a valuable experience, but it was like going to prep school; his ultimate goal was to enroll in “the University of Ellingtonia.”
Nonetheless, after close to a decade with the Ellington band, he decided it was time to move on. “I wanted to be more of a soloist,” he said, “but it was a seniority thing. There were about 10 guys ahead of me.”
In late 1959 he joined a big band being formed by Quincy Jones, who not that many years earlier, as a youngster, had taken a few trumpet lessons from him. The original plan was for the band to appear in a stage musical called “Free and Easy,” with music by Harold Arlen. But the show folded during a tryout in Paris, and Mr. Terry accepted an offer to join NBC-TV’s in-house corps of musicians.
The first black musician to land such a job at NBC, he soon became familiar to late-night viewers as a member of the band on “The Tonight Show,” led for most of his time there by Doc Severinsen. He also led a popular quintet with the valve trombonist Bob Brookmeyer and worked as a sideman with the saxophonist Gerry Mulligan and others.
When Johnny Carson began his popular “Stump the Band” feature on “The Tonight Show,” in which members of the studio audience tried to come up with song titles that no one in the band recognized, Mr. Terry would often claim to know the song in question and then bluff his way through a bluesy half-sung, half-mumbled number of his own spontaneous invention.
He recorded one such joking vocal in 1964, as part of an album he cut with the pianist Oscar Peterson’s trio. As he recalled it, the song, released as “Mumbles,” was recorded only because the session had gone so smoothly that the musicians had extra studio time on their hands. Much to his surprise he found himself with a hit.
When “The Tonight Show” moved to the West Coast in 1972, Mr. Terry stayed in New York. Jazz was at something of a low ebb commercially, but he managed to stay busy both in and out of the studios and even found work for a 17-piece band he had formed in 1967. Between 1978 and 1981 he took the band to Asia, Africa, South America and Europe under the auspices of the State Department. Most of his concert and nightclub work, though, was as the leader of a quartet or quintet.
Mr. Terry also became active in jazz education, appearing at high school and college clinics, writing jazz instruction books and running a summer jazz camp. He was an adviser to the International Association of Jazz Educators and chairman of the academic council of the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz. For many years he was also an adjunct professor at William Paterson University in Wayne, N.J., to which he donated his archive of instruments, sheet music, correspondence and memorabilia in 2004.
Mr. Terry’s first marriage, to Mayola Robinson, ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Pauline Reddon, died in 1979. In addition to his wife, his survivors include two stepsons, Gary and Tony Paris, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
Mr. Terry was named a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master in 1991 and was given a lifetime achievement award by the Recording Academy in 2010. Diabetes and other health problems forced him to cut down on touring in the 1990s, but he remained active into the new century. He appeared in New York nightclubs as recently as 2008, doing more singing than playing but with his spirit intact.
And Mr. Terry, who in recent years had been living in Pine Bluff, continued to be a mentor to young musicians after his performing days were over. An acclaimed 2014 documentary, “Keep On Keepin’ On,” directed by Alan Hicks, told the story of his relationship with a promising young pianist, Justin Kauflin, whom Mr. Terry first taught at William Paterson, and with whom he continued to work even after being hospitalized.
“The only way I knew how to keep going,” Mr. Terry wrote in his autobiography, “Clark,” published in 2011, “was to keep going.”
Lew Soloff, a jazz trumpeter who reached a broader audience with the jazz-rock band Blood, Sweat & Tears, especially with a memorable solo on the original version of the 1969 hit “Spinning Wheel,” died on Sunday in Brooklyn. He was 71.
The cause was a heart attack, his manager Nancy Meyer said.
Mr. Soloff had little use for genre limitations. He was a session musician for Barbra Streisand, Frank Sinatra and Lou Reed; he was the lead trumpeter of both the Carnegie Hall Jazz Band and the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra; he tackled Bach as a member of the quintet Manhattan Brass.
“For lack of a better word I call it jazz, but I consider any music that’s improvised to be in that genre,” he told The Jerusalem Post in 2002. “The key to what I like to do is to improvise.”
He did not do much improvising while he recorded and toured with Blood, Sweat & Tears, one of the first rock bands to include a horn section, after replacing Randy Brecker in 1968. But his playing was essential to the success of the band, whose self-titled second album, released in late 1968, won the Grammy Award for album of the year and included three singles that went gold and reached No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100: soulful covers of “You’ve Made Me So Very Happy,” originally recorded by Brenda Holloway; Laura Nyro’s “And When I Die”; and “Spinning Wheel,” an original composition by the band’s lead singer, David Clayton-Thomas.
The album version of “Spinning Wheel” featured a bebop-inflected upper-register solo by Mr. Soloff that captivated ears more familiar with rock ’n’ roll. The solo was removed from the 45 r.p.m. version to shorten the song for radio, but many musicians say it was transformational.
“There was no jazz-rock before Blood, Sweat & Tears,” the keyboardist Paul Shaffer, the leader of the “Late Show With David Letterman” band, said in a telephone interview on Monday.
“You changed the idiom,” Mr. Shaffer said, speaking of Mr. Soloff, a close friend, in the second person. “After you, rock ’n’ roll was no longer limited to triads and three chords.”
Mr. Soloff toured the world with Blood, Sweat & Tears. In 1970 the band played before 14,500 fans at Madison Square Garden; their opening act was a sextet led by Miles Davis. But Mr. Soloff left the band in 1973, seeking new musical challenges.
“It gave me the life experience of once having been a sort of rock star — not individually but certainly as a member of the band,” he said in 2002. “At one point it was the second-biggest band in the world. I’m thankful for that, but there was never enough improvisational freedom.”
Lewis Michael Soloff was born on Feb. 20, 1944, in Brooklyn. He grew up in Lakewood, N.J., and took up the trumpet at 10.
After graduating from the Eastman School of Music in 1961 and briefly studying at Juilliard, he began playing in New York with Maynard Ferguson, Tito Puente and Machito. He released eight albums as a leader and performed or recorded with Gil Evans, Paul Simon, Dizzy Gillespie and many others.
Mr. Soloff lived in Brooklyn. His marriage to the classical harpist Emily Mitchell ended in divorce. He is survived by two daughters, Laura Solomon and Lena Soloff, and two grandchildren.
After decades of debate, false starts and cost overruns, luxury golf finally arrived in the Bronx on Wednesday, as the Trump Golf Links at Ferry Point opened in the shadow of the Bronx-Whitestone Bridge.
Forty years ago, as swaths of the South Bronx blazed, such a news bulletin might have been an April Fool’s joke. But while the public links made its debut on April 1, the 18-hole course marked a milestone for urban fans of golf and the end of a long struggle for the city’s Department of Parks and Recreation.
The parks department already oversees more than a dozen other municipal golf courses, including four in the Bronx. But the new golf course in Ferry Point Park, in the Throgs Neck section of the Bronx, the first built in the city since 1964, represents a departure, elevating municipal golf to a new level of sophistication — and expense.
Greens fees are about three times what they are at the city’s other courses; a city resident will pay $169 to play on weekends, while a nonresident will pay $215. Electric golf carts are outfitted with GPS, allowing golfers, among other things, to order a chicken sandwich and a Bronx Pale Ale while they are playing.
Perhaps paradoxically for such a high-end experience, the 7,400-yard golf course, which received a push forward when the company led by Donald J. Trump won the bid to run it, is built on a former landfill that closed in 1963. Scores of vents jut up from the links to release methane gas. The course is framed by housing projects and other modest buildings on one side.
But out on the links, golfers are immersed in another world. While the greens were still dormant and therefore lacking in color, they nonetheless present a hilly tableau, offering vistas of the Manhattan skyline and the glittering East River around every corner.
On Wednesday, despite temperatures in the 40s, more than 30 foursomes were out on the links, which were designed by Jack Nicklaus and John Sanford in the Scottish style — without trees. (The landscape was in part dictated by the limitations of a former landfill.)
Among the players was the Bronx borough president, Ruben Diaz Jr., who insisted that his score was off the record. “I’m out here on Day 1, letting people know that we have a world-class, P.G.A. links-style golf course right here in the boogie-down Bronx,” he said right before making a crisp drive that elicited whistles from onlookers.
“That was on the record!” he shouted. Half of the course’s 100 employees are Bronx residents.
Higher greens fees do not seem to have scared off potential players. In mid-March, the course started taking reservations for April. “Within 15 minutes all the prime time slots had sold out for every weekend,” said Ronald C. Lieberman, an executive vice president of the Trump Organization.
The development of the course was plagued by problems, including the discovery of toxic substances in the soil. A deal with a developer, Ferry Point Partners, to build the course fell apart in 2006.
The city then built the 192-acre course itself, using city contractors, but costs eventually ballooned to $127 million, and critics questioned the need for an upscale golf course in a borough where a third of residents live below the poverty line. The Trump Organization was chosen in 2010 to operate the course after several earlier attempts to find an operator failed.
The company will soon start construction on a permanent, $10 million clubhouse, which it will finance. In the meantime, a temporary clubhouse has a pro shop and an outdoor grill under a yellow-and-white striped awning.
Both Mr. Trump and city officials hope to eventually lure a professional tournament. “Hopefully, we’ll have majors and P.G.A. championships and Ryder Cups,” Mr. Trump said in a phone interview.
There will be an official opening ceremony in May, with Mr. Trump, Mr. Nicklaus, the parks commissioner, Mitchell J. Silver, and others. By then the grass should be bright green. In keeping with the recent weather, opening day was so chilly that play was delayed by two hours.
“The first person teed off at 10,” said Anthony D. Macari, director of concession architecture and development for the parks department. “It was a little late because of the frost.”
If you’d asked me a year ago whether the day that I caught 25 fish would be better than the day I caught just one, I’d have said it would be no contest. But I’d have been wrong.
Those two days served as a reminder that in fishing — as in lesser moments in life — quantity and quality are not always in lock step.
First, the 25-fish day.
It happened during a visit to France to a village near Lyon with a friend who thought I would be bereft to be several thousand miles from Montana’s streams, where I usually spend weeks in summer. Drives in the rolling countryside, eating well at far-from-fancy restaurants and, above all, stocking up at glorious farmers’ markets like the one at Venaison easily outmatched the Rocky Mountain counterparts. Still, a summer without fishing can never be considered perfect. So we organized a couple of day trips, with François Mansbendel, a guide we found when we searched for fishing guides in Lyon online.
François picked us up at the home where we were staying, bringing a spinning rod and a variety of lures. We could not fit in his small car so we followed him in our own for about 20 miles of small factories and villages to an inlet of the Rhone River.
Our first quarry would be pike. Why pike? Because we were near Lyon, a center of French cooking whose signature dish is quenelle de brochet, or pike. Even though the Rhone is so polluted that you wouldn’t eat anything caught there, we did it for the sake of tradition. Thanks to the pollution, the pike for Lyon’s quenelles are now flown from Denmark, but François promised angling success, even if our catch was inedible. Yet I had no strikes in several hours. It made me appreciate store-bought quenelles all the more.
The world over, guides assure unsuccessful anglers that the next day will be better. François was no different — except that he was right.
The next morning we drove through dramatic hilly countryside to a park near the village of St.-Germain-sur-l’Arbresle to meet François, who has a day job there teaching schoolchildren how to fish. He set out a folding chair by the side of a pond that he said was stocked with carp. It was midweek and no one else was fishing, but the pond was large enough to offer casting stations for two dozen anglers.
Then he set up a long, very light spinning rod and tutored me in casting with tackle that was very different from the fly rods I know. It was easy and, if anything, I cast too far. No need, he assured me, to go beyond the middle of the pond.
The first surprise was what went on the hook after I had made a few practice casts. We were not using a metal lure, a streamer, or a worm or even corn or dough balls — two favorite American baits for carp. Instead, François took out the cuisine Lyonnaise these carp were accustomed to — a pellet of fish food. He fastened it onto the long shank of a hook with what looked like a rubber band.
The second surprise was even more unfamiliar. I cast into the middle of the pond. François picked up a slingshot, filled it with eight or 10 more pellets, and fired them into the area where my cast had gone. He was chumming to attract carp to the place where my hook lay on the bottom. He laid the rod down on a small tripod. We would sit back. When the rod started to vibrate, he told me to set the hook.
It worked, 25 times. Eighteen carp and seven tench (also called doctor fish) were netted and released. None heavier than three pounds, but they did fight. None shook off the hook. They never broke the surface or jumped.
Since I started fishing about 65 years ago, I can’t remember catching that many fish in a day. But after a while it became routine, and we packed up in midafternoon — which was just as well, because we got thoroughly lost on the way back.
Six weeks later, I was fishing for Atlantic salmon on the Miramichi in New Brunswick, Canada. I try to end each season there in rugged, forested country at a luxurious lodge, the Ledges Inn in Doaktown. The weather was splendid, unfortunately. Salmon always seem harder to catch on bright, sunny days.
None of us fishing out of the Ledges Inn had success. Like me, an English couple had been skunked for three days. We all saw plenty of fish. They jumped, far away and nearby, seemingly taunting anglers with their leaps. After all, salmon don’t have a middle finger.
With little more than an hour before I would have to leave to catch a plane home, I gave up on a long pool called Maples, where there were plenty of aerobatic fish, including a big one that had come up to look at my fly, then spurned it. I asked my guide, Vemrose Taylor, to take us upstream to a pool called Kelly’s Run.
Salmon fishing, even on a very slow day, isn’t boring. The so-called fish of a thousand casts keeps you on edge, waiting to feel the light tap on the line that is often all the chance you get to hook it. Some days all you get is casting practice, lots of it.
The sky had clouded over, and Vemrose suggested we switch flies, changing from a Green Machine to an Ally’s Shrimp, a pattern with a lot of orange. Kelly’s has a fast current, and the fly swung sharply away from the bank and downstream.
Finally I hooked a fish. It jumped six times, trying to shake the hook loose. We could see that it wasn’t big, a grilse (a young salmon returning to its native river after only one winter at sea) between four and five pounds. But it made a couple of desperate runs when Vemrose tried to net him. He did land him, but I can’t prove it because he must be the only guide in North America who doesn’t carry a camera or a camera phone. I would have brought it home, but Ledges has a strict catch-and-release policy to preserve salmon stocks.
The suspense of the one-fish day topped the predictability of the 25-fish day, even though trying new techniques and new water are always rewards of their own. So this year I’m trying for trout in the South Holston River in Tennessee and the White (as in Whitewater) in Arkansas, and some familiar Montana streams.
And salmon in the Miramichi, of course.
 
Call me an idealist, but I’d like to think that the halls of higher education are less vulnerable to the siren calls of fame and fortune than other byways of American life are. I’d like to believe in a bold dividing line between academic virtues and celebrity values, between intellectual and commercial concerns.
But Henry Louis Gates Jr., a renowned Harvard professor, and Mehmet Oz, a surgeon on the faculty at Columbia, get in my way.
I link the two because they’re both in the news, not because they’re equally in thrall to the television camera or identically unabashed peddlers of something other than fact. Oz is by far the more compromised figure.
But Gates, too, exemplifies what happens when a lecturer is bathed in bright lights and gets to hang with Ben Affleck, who will soon be on-screen in Batman’s billowing cape.
Affleck was a guest last October on the PBS documentary series “Finding Your Roots,” in which Gates takes luminaries — Sting, Stephen King, Angela Bassett — on journeys into their pasts. Affleck signed up for the trip.
But when he learned that he had a slave-owning ancestor, he asked that the detail be excised, according to communications between Gates and his friend Michael Lynton, the chief executive of Sony Entertainment. Their exchange was part of the hacked Sony emails recently shared by WikiLeaks.
“We’ve never had anyone ever try to censor or edit what we found,” Gates wrote to Lynton, going on to fret over the “integrity” of the series. “He’s a megastar. What do we do?”
Gates left the detail out.
After the disclosure of this late last week, he insisted, unpersuasively, that the cut reflected nothing more than the need to make room for other ancestors of Affleck’s who warranted inclusion in the episode.
Regardless, it exposed Gates, a trusted authority on the African-American experience, to accusations that he’d sold out. It diminished him.
But wasn’t that inevitable from the moment he hitched scholarship to show business?
“We conflate what a PBS special is with academic work,” Carol Anderson, who teaches at Emory University, told Jamil Smith in The New Republic. “We have to understand that so much of what we see there is packaged for a nonacademic audience that wants the picture of really deep, intellectual discussion, but is not quite ready for what that means.”
What does the audience of “The Dr. Oz Show” want?
To judge by what Oz gives them, it’s winnowed thighs, amulets against cancer and breathless promises of “magic” and “revolutionary” breakthroughs.
Oz has morphed not just willingly but exuberantly into a carnival barker. He’s a one-man morality play about the temptations of mammon and the seduction of applause, a Faustian parable with a stethoscope.
Many Americans probably had no idea that he remained affiliated with Columbia — he’s vice chairman of its surgery department — until they read last week about an email sent to the university by 10 physicians around the country. They accused him of “promoting quack treatments” for “personal financial gain” and urged Columbia to sever its ties with him.
He’s expected to defend himself on television later this week, and his publicity machine has gone into overdrive, seeking to discredit the physicians and frame the issue as one of free speech.
But don’t forget that he was called before a United States Senate panel last year to explain his on-air gushing about green coffee extract, raspberry ketones and other faddish weight-loss supplements. Admonishing him, Senator Claire McCaskill noted that “the scientific community is almost monolithic” in its rejection of “products you called ‘miracles.’ ”
Also remember that the British Medical Journal published a study of scores of his show’s medical recommendations, saying more than half didn’t have sound scientific backing. 
And bear in mind that the Sony emails included one that showed Oz to be eager, as Vox reported, “to use his platform on the show to help expand Sony’s fitness and health-tracking devices market.” Sony is one of the producers of “Dr. Oz.”
But well beyond Oz, there’s an unsettling corruption of academia by celebrity culture.
Many professors do double duty as television pundits, even though sound bites, which are inherently unsubtle, run counter to what scholarship exalts. And educational institutions choose speakers largely — and sometimes solely — for their star power. The University of Houston spent $155,000 to schedule Matthew McConaughey for its commencement next month.
Maybe he’s more learned than we realize. Or maybe erudition counts for less than buzz, even in those enclaves that are supposed to be about deep, durable things.
CHICAGO — Jameis Winston, the star quarterback from Florida State who played under a swirl of controversy, was chosen first over all in the N.F.L. draft by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Thursday.
Winston led the Seminoles to a national championship during the 2013 season and was considered, along with Oregon quarterback Marcus Mariota, to have the best chance of being chosen first.
Success has come quickly for Winston, the youngest player to win the Heisman Trophy, who was also drafted by the Texas Rangers. But he has been dogged by accusations that he raped a former Florida State student, who has since filed a civil suit against him.
Winston’s off-field problems proved to be a source of consternation for the N.F.L., which has tried to clean up its image as a league willing to tolerate violence and lawbreaking off the field. Several weeks ago, Winston met Commissioner Roger Goodell to discuss his future in the league.
“It’s so surreal; it feels like the championship game in 2013,” Winston said in a brief interview on NFL Network.
Winston edged out Mariota, who played a more wide-open style of football at Oregon. Tampa Bay, which finished 2-14 last season, had been looking for a quarterback to rejuvenate its franchise. Winston, who played just a few hours away in Tallahassee, will become the face of the team.
Mariota did not have to wait long, though. He was chosen by the Tennessee Titans, who had the second pick in the draft. In recent weeks, speculation had swirled that the Titans would trade their pick to a team presumably eager to acquire the Hawaii-born Mariota, who won the Heisman Trophy in 2014.
Greeted by a lusty round of boos each time he came on stage at the Auditorium Theater, Goodell announced that Dante Fowler Jr., an outside linebacker from Florida, had been chosen third by the Jacksonville Jaguars. Because Winston and Mariota were not in Chicago, Fowler was the first player to walk across the stage to hug Goodell.
“For me to be part of this and for me to be the first defensive player on that stage, I’ve dreamed about it since I was a kid,” Fowler said.
Fowler was picked ahead of Leonard Williams, the highly regarded defensive tackle from Southern California whom some analysts had expected to be chosen first. He was selected sixth, by the Jets. Williams, a two-time all-American defensive end, may make it easier for the Jets to trade Muhammad Wilkerson.
As is their custom, the Jets fans in attendance booed when Williams was chosen.
The Oakland Raiders chose Alabama’s Amari Cooper, who won the Biletnikoff Award as the nation’s top receiver and was a unanimous all-America choice. Cooper, like Winston and Mariota, did not attend the draft.
The Washington Redskins, at No. 5, selected Brandon Scherff, a top-rated offensive tackle from Iowa.
The Chicago Bears picked Kevin White, the fleet wide receiver from West Virginia, at No. 7.
The Falcons picked another defensive end, Vic Beasley of Clemson, with the No. 8 pick, while the Giants chose Ereck Flowers, an offensive tackle from Miami. The St. Louis Rams chose Todd Gurley of Georgia, who was considered the best running back in the draft.
The San Diego Chargers, who traded to obtain the San Francisco 49ers’ pick, chose Melvin Gordon, a running back from Wisconsin. No team chose a running back in the first round last year.
The main story of the night, though, was Winston. Teams have steered clear of signing Ray Rice, who was suspended after a video was released showing him knocking out his fiancée, and owners were wary of signing Greg Hardy, who was suspended with pay after he was found guilty of domestic violence.
At a meeting with reporters last week, Goodell brushed off questions about whether the league’s work to combat domestic violence would be hurt if Winston was chosen first in the draft. He added that he was not bothered that Winston and Mariota had chosen not to attend the draft.
“It’s an important day for them, and when they say they want to be with their families, we respect that,” he said.
In addition to the rape allegations, Winston was involved in BB gun incidents and cited for shoplifting $32.72 worth of crawfish and crab legs. In a statement after that incident, Winston characterized the misdeed as “youthful ignorance.”
Winston was also suspended for a game against Clemson last season after he yelled a crude statement inside the F.S.U. student union. At a news conference, Winston called the act “selfish.” He told reporters, “I did something, so I’ve got to accept my consequences.”
Winton’s behavior was counter to the image the N.F.L. had been trying to promote. In 2013, the league confronted reports of bullying by members of the Miami Dolphins. That led to new awareness training for players and team personnel.
Last year, Goodell was widely criticized after he suspended Rice for just two games for knocking out his fiancée. Critics, including some members of Congress, called the league callous and out of touch.
Goodell apologized, and the league overhauled its personal conduct policy to include stiffer penalties for anyone found to have committed domestic violence. Coaches, team personnel and players, including prospects attending the draft, now must attend seminars on how to prevent domestic violence.
Hours before the draft started, off-field issues intruded again. Louisiana State offensive lineman La’el Collins, who was projected to be drafted in the first round, asked the N.F.L. to be withdrawn from the draft and placed in a supplemental draft later this year.
Collins was being sought by the police in connection with the murder of his ex-girlfriend. Though he is not a suspect, the report may hurt his chances in the draft. The N.F.L., though, denied his request because there was no procedure to remove a player once he was eligible.
The N.F.L. moved the draft to Chicago this year after a half-century in New York to reach more fans.
Outside the Auditorium Theater, the draft had a decidedly Chicago feel to it, as the “El” trains rumbled around the Loop. Thousands of fans gathered, even as temperatures dipped into the 40s, lining up four and five deep in front of the theater as the prospects arrived.
Across Michigan Avenue in Grant Park, Draft Town — part museum and part activity fair — offered its own attractions. Some clustered at the makeshift TV studios for ESPN and NFL Network, chanting, “Let’s go, Bears.”
Rolf Smedvig, a virtuoso classical trumpeter who helped found the Empire Brass, a renowned quintet whose repertory extends from the Renaissance to the Jazz Age, died on April 27 at his home in West Stockbridge, Mass. He was 62.
The cause was a heart attack, said his manager, Mark Z. Alpert.
A former principal trumpeter of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, Mr. Smedvig was considered one of the finest exponents of the instrument in the world, praised for his pyrotechnic agility and warm, velvety tone. Besides performing with the quintet, he appeared often as a soloist with orchestras around the globe.
With four colleagues, Mr. Smedvig started the Empire Brass Quintet, as it was originally known, in the early 1970s. Comprising two trumpets, French horn, trombone and tuba, it has toured widely, released dozens of recordings and appeared on television shows as varied as the “Today” show and “Mister Rogers’ Neighborhood.” 
In 1976, the Empire Brass became the first brass quintet to win a Naumburg Foundation award, a classical-music honor.
Mr. Smedvig, who played first trumpet in the group, was its sole remaining original member; its current incarnation includes Derek Lockhart, second trumpet; Victor Sungarian, French horn; Greg Spiridopoulos, trombone; and Kenneth Amis, tuba.
The Empire Brass will continue, Mr. Alpert said on Friday, with Mr. Lockhart assuming the first trumpeter’s chair and Eric Berlin joining the ensemble as the second trumpeter.
Of Icelandic and Norwegian extraction, Rolf Thorstein Smedvig was born in Seattle on Sept. 23, 1952. His mother, Kristin, was a violinist with the Seattle Symphony for many years; his father, Egil, was a music teacher and composer. A prodigy on the trumpet, Rolf performed as a soloist with the Seattle Symphony at 13 and later studied at Boston University, where his teachers included the eminent trumpeter Maurice André.
In 1971, while studying at Tanglewood, the young Mr. Smedvig was chosen by Leonard Bernstein to be the trumpet soloist in the world premiere of his Mass, composed for the opening of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.
The next year, at 19, Mr. Smedvig was named assistant principal trumpeter of the Boston Symphony, one of the youngest musicians ever appointed there; he became its principal trumpeter in 1979. He left the orchestra in 1981 to focus on solo work, chamber music and conducting.
Mr. Smedvig incurred public criticism in 1991, when comments he made while teaching a master class at Boston University were deemed sexist by some participants. As The Boston Globe reported, after hearing three undergraduate women perform Poulenc’s sonata for horn, trumpet and trombone, he said, “Women have a really tough time playing brass instruments because your basic nature is not terribly aggressive.”
He continued, “Boys, I mean, we grow up at the age of 5, you know, and we’re playing in the dirt and you guys are playing with dolls.”
The remarks caused a furor. (Women were historically discouraged from playing brass instruments, and the brass sections of symphony orchestras endure as largely male bastions.) Mr. Smedvig later apologized but appeared to undercut his apology when he added, “There is a design problem inherent in the basic personalities of women when it comes to brass instruments.”
Mr. Smedvig’s solo albums include works by Bach, Telemann, Haydn and Mozart. His recordings with the quintet include “Baroque Brass,” “An Empire Brass Christmas” and “American Brass Band Journal.”
He was a guest conductor of the Zurich Tonhalle Orchestra, the Simón Bolívar Symphony Orchestra of Venezuela and other ensembles.
Mr. Smedvig’s first marriage, to Caroline Elisabeth Hessberg, known as Kim, ended in divorce. (She is now married to the singer-songwriter James Taylor.) His survivors include his second wife, the former Kelly Holub, whom he married in 1992; two sisters, Jodene Smedvig and Siri Smedvig; and four children from his second marriage: a son, Soren; and three daughters, Soffia, Aurora and the youngest, Annika, whom he began teaching to play the trumpet almost before she could walk.
Less than a day after two gunmen were shot and killed while trying to attack a Prophet Muhammad cartoon contest in Texas, Pamela Geller, the New York blogger who organized the contest, took to the Internet.
“Here’s what the enemies of freedom sought to crush last night,” Ms. Geller wrote. “Truth and freedom.” She added, “They were crushed instead.”
Though hailed by her supporters as a patriot and condemned by her critics as a bigot, Ms. Geller, everyone seems to agree, has never had trouble speaking her mind.
The cartoon competition, which she says was held in honor of Charlie Hebdo, the French satirical newspaper that was itself attacked this winter by Muslim extremists angered by its caricatures of Muhammad, was only the latest in a long list of inflammatory events in which she has sought to marry a defense of free speech with assaults on Islam as a violent and hateful religion. But this was the first time her group came under violent attack.
She has had victories. Last month, in a case brought by the American Freedom Defense Initiative, a pro-Israel organization that Ms. Geller runs, a federal judge in Manhattan ruled that New York transportation officials had to post subway advertisements purchased by the group despite concerns that they might lead to violence.
The ads, which the judge in the case, John G. Koeltl of United States District Court, referred to as “offensive,” feature a man in a head scarf near the words “Killing Jews is Worship that draws us closer to Allah,” attributed to “Hamas MTV.”
The ad also says: “That’s his Jihad. What’s yours?”
Born on Long Island, Ms. Geller, 57, is perhaps best known for her role in helping shut down Park51, a proposed mosque and Islamic cultural center that its founders planned to build in 2010 near the site of the World Trade Center attacks in Lower Manhattan.
With a typical blend of vitriol and media savvy, Ms. Geller assailed the project as “a stab in the eye of America,” saying that its construction, especially near ground zero, was an act “of Islamic domination and expansionism.”
After getting her start in new media as a frequent commenter on the conservative website Little Green Footballs, Ms. Geller, who once worked on the business side of The New York Observer and The Daily News, began taking on issues relating to Muslims and Islam after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
In 2006, when Muslims rioted over cartoons of Muhammad printed in a Danish newspaper, she excoriated the rioters and published the images on her website, unlike much of the news media. She also played a role in winning the resignation in 2007 of Debbie Almontaser, a Muslim principal who started an Arabic-language school in Brooklyn.
Allied with men like Robert Spencer, the proprietor of Jihadwatch.org and her partner at the American Freedom Defense Initiative, and Anders Gravers, a Danish “anti-Islamization” activist, Ms. Geller spends much of her time on the blog Atlas Shrugs, a website she uses to attack Islam with language so venomous that PayPal, the service she uses to collect donations, once branded it a hate site.
On the site, Ms. Geller has called for the removal of the Dome of the Rock from the Temple Mount in Jerusalem and suggested that the State Department was rife with “Islamic supremacists.”
Among the similar groups that Ms. Geller has championed over the years is the English Defense League, which opposes the building of mosques in Britain and whose members have been photographed wearing swastikas. In June 2013, the British government barred Ms. Geller and Mr. Spencer from entering the country, where they were due to speak at a defense league march in Woolwich.
The Southern Poverty Law Center currently includes the American Freedom Defense Initiative on its national list of hate groups, referring to the organization as “an active anti-Muslim group.”
But her supporters consider her a truth teller. One of Ms. Geller’s board members, Pamela Hall, called her a “gift to the country” and said the Texas contest “was about freedom of speech.”
“Some wanted to say that it was a form of taunting,” Ms. Hall said, “but it wasn’t.”
A day after the shooting, Ms. Geller was not mincing words. “This incident shows how much needed our event really was,” Ms. Geller wrote of the cartoon competition in an email while flying from Texas back to New York. “Freedom of speech is under violent assault here in our nation. The question now before us is: Will we stand and defend it, or bow to violence, thuggery, and savagery?”
Madison Bumgarner homered off Clayton Kershaw and once again outpitched him as the San Francisco Giants shut out the visiting Los Angeles Dodgers for the third straight day, 4-0.
The Giants outscored the Dodgers by 10-0 in sweeping the three-game series.
This was the third time this season that Bumgarner had started against Kershaw, and the Giants have won all three.
Bumgarner (5-2) gave up seven hits and two walks in six and a third innings. He struck out six and improved to 9-3 in his last 13 starts against the Dodgers.
Bumgarner became the first pitcher to homer off Kershaw (2-3). The home run, a solo shot into the bleachers in left in the third, was the seventh of his career.
ORIOLES 5, MARINERS 4 Steve Pearce hit his first career grand slam, J. J. Hardy singled in the tiebreaking run in the eighth inning, and Baltimore weathered a lengthy rain delay and a comeback by visiting Seattle.
After Pearce connected in the first inning for a 4-0 lead, the Orioles managed only one more hit until Chris Davis led off the eighth with a single off Danny Farquhar (0-3). Davis advanced on a groundout and scored on an awkward slide after Hardy bounced a single up the middle.
TIGERS 6, ASTROS 5 James McCann hit a leadoff home run in the 11th inning, lifting Detroit over visiting Houston.
McCann sent an 0-2 pitch from Tony Sipp (2-1) into the Tigers’ bullpen, just beyond the reach of the leaping left fielder Colby Rasmus. It was the second homer of his career.
Alex Wilson (2-0) pitched two scoreless innings for the win.DIAMONDBACKS 7, MARLINS 6 A. J. Pollock had a run-scoring infield hit with two out in the eighth inning, and Arizona beat Miami to complete its first four-game sweep in seven seasons.
It was the fifth four-game road sweep in Diamondbacks history.
Andrew Chafin (2-0) pitched one and a third perfect innings, and Brad Ziegler needed only nine pitches in a perfect ninth for his first save since last June 8. Sam Dyson (2-1) was the loser.
ROCKIES 7, PHILLIES 3 Michael McKenry hit a two-run homer and Jorge De La Rosa became Colorado’s career strikeouts leader, helping the Rockies beat visiting Philadelphia.
De La Rosa struck out Freddy Galvis in the fourth for this 774th strikeout in a Rockies uniform, moving past Ubaldo Jimenez.
Brandon Barnes, recently called up from Class AAA, had four hits.
BLUE JAYS 8, ANGELS 4 R. A. Dickey ended a two-start losing streak with a complete game, Edwin Encarnacion hit a three-run homer, and Toronto beat visiting Los Angeles.
Danny Valencia added a solo homer as the Blue Jays won for the second time in nine games.
Dickey (2-5) allowed four runs and five hits, walked two and struck out a season-high seven.
RANGERS 3, RED SOX 1 Mitch Moreland hit a solo homer and drove in two runs, Wandy Rodriguez pitched six and two-thirds solid innings and Texas beat the Red Sox in Boston.
Moreland added two singles for the Rangers, who won for the third time in four games to capture the series after losing the opener.
Rodriguez (2-2) allowed one run and four hits, struck out five and walked two after not getting out of the fifth inning in his previous start.
BRAVES 10, BREWERS 1 Julio Teheran pitched seven strong innings, and Atlanta beat visiting Milwaukee after Brewers reliever Will Smith was ejected in the seventh inning for allegedly using pine tar.
Play was stopped briefly with Atlanta leading by 2-1 and the bases loaded with one out in the seventh when Braves Manager Fredi Gonzalez successfully argued to umpires that Smith had pine tar on his right forearm.
RAYS 3, ATHLETICS 0 Alex Colome and four relievers combined on a six-hitter, David DeJesus drove in two runs, and Tampa Bay beat visiting Oakland to take sole possession of first place in the American League East.
Colome (3-1) gave up four hits over five innings. Steve Geltz, Kevin Jepsen, Jake McGee and Brad Boxberger, who pitched the ninth for his 12th save, each threw an inning.
CUBS 3, PADRES 0 Kyle Hendricks pitched a five-hitter for his first career complete game and shutout, and Kris Bryant hit a two-run homer as Chicago won at San Diego, taking two of three games in their series.
Hendricks (1-1) struck out seven with no walks. Only one Padres base runner advanced to second base.
Bryant homered to straightaway center field on the seventh pitch of the game by Odrisamer Despaigne (2-3).
INDIANS 5, WHITE SOX 2 Danny Salazar tossed six scoreless innings and was backed by first-inning home runs from Nick Swisher and Mike Aviles, leading Cleveland past the White Sox in Chicago.
Salazar (5-1) walked three, struck out eight and gave up five hits to hand Chicago its first series loss at home this season.
Marcus Belgrave, a trumpet and fluegelhorn player who worked with Ray Charles, Charles Mingus, Max Roach and others before settling in Detroit in the early 1960s and becoming a coach and conscience for that city’s jazz scene, died on May 23 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 78.
His wife, the singer Joan Belgrave, said he died of heart failure, the result of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, at Glacier Hills, a care and rehabilitation center.
In one way or another, Mr. Belgrave was mentor to many of Detroit’s greatest jazz musicians over the past 50 years. They include the pianist Geri Allen, the saxophonists Kenny Garrett and James Carter, the violinist Regina Carter, the bassists Rodney Whitaker and Robert Hurst and the drummers Karriem Riggins and Ali Jackson.
In the early 1970s, as the live jazz scene in Detroit shrank and Motown Records, which had given work to Mr. Belgrave and many other local musicians, decamped for Los Angeles, he became involved in teaching opportunities that had grown out of antipoverty programs instituted under President Lyndon B. Johnson.
Mr. Belgrave founded the Jazz Development Workshop as a structure for his formal and informal teaching in schools, after-school programs, camps and workshops. Eventually he took teaching positions around the country, the longest of which was at Oberlin College in Ohio from 2001 to 2010.
Mr. Belgrave was born in Chester, Pa., on June 12, 1936. At 12, in Wilmington, Del., he joined a concert band that included the trumpeter Clifford Brown, who would have a great influence on his driving, organized, melodic improvising.
Mr. Belgrave joined Ray Charles at 21 and played with him on and off for five years, touring and performing on “The Genius of Ray Charles” and other records. When not playing with the Charles band, he worked with Mingus and Roach in New York.
Mr. Belgrave moved to Detroit in 1963. “This was just a natural place for me to come,” he said in an interview with The Detroit Metro Times in 2003. “This was probably the only place in the country where music was No. 1.”
In addition to Ms. Belgrave, his third wife, he is survived by two daughters, Akua Belgrave and Marcia Monroe; two sons, Kasan Belgrave and Marcus Belgrave Jr.; a stepdaughter, Alia McCants; two stepsons, Kenan Smith and Landon Smith; a sister, Eudora Muhammad; and three brothers, Darnley, Louie and Lemmuel. He had homes in Detroit and Ann Arbor.
Mr. Belgrave’s teaching tended to overshadow his recording career, but he made several albums as a leader after leaving Ray Charles. They include “Gemini II,” his first, a powerful, spacey jazz-funk record released in 1974 but little heard before its CD reissue 30 years later; “Working Together” (1992), a sophisticated postbop record with the drummer Lawrence Williams, one of his old colleagues in the Jazz Development Workshop; and “You Don’t Know Me” (2006), a mixture of early jazz numbers and songs from the Ray Charles repertoire, one of several albums he made with his wife.
A sunny and energetic presence, Mr. Belgrave performed in recent years while on oxygen support, playing every day to help his lungs. He performed last July at Dizzy’s Club Coca-Cola in New York with his latest Detroit protégés and at his death was preparing for an appearance at Orchestra Hall in Detroit on July 12.
BERLIN — The German capital on a sunny Sunday afternoon is about as laid-back a place as may be imagined. Couples lounge in the grass beside the Landwehr Canal in the Tiergarten, jugglers perform, kids on bikes in bright helmets zigzag through the throng.
The city, it seems, has not a care in the world.
Just back from the water there is a small memorial to Rosa Luxemburg, the socialist revolutionary murdered in 1919 by rightist paramilitaries. Her body was tossed in the canal. The murder presaged two decades in which Germany would be the crucible of a fierce struggle between left and right, Marxism and Fascism.
Across Europe, opposing ideas vied for the minds of the masses tugged into cities by industrialization, radicalized by the devastation of war, polarized by the Bolshevik revolution in Moscow. Politics was the battleground of capital and labor, industry and the proletariat. Rightist revanchists confronted Marxists bent on wresting control of the means of production. The Weimar Republic, aptly described by the novelist Alfred Döblin as a political set-up lacking “proper instructions for use,” was never free of political violence. Out of it, in 1933, came Hitler and his marauding SA Brownshirts. It did not take them long to trash every independent institution and turn Germany into a lawless dictatorship.
The Nazis’ first business was with the left — socialists and communists who, unlike Luxemburg, had survived. The first concentration camps, like Dachau, were filled with them. The battle of ideas had to be settled, the left extinguished. The Jewish question could be resolved later, even if Jewish leftists (or “Judeo-Bolsheviks” as the Nazis called them) were immediately the object of particular vitriol and violence, the fodder on which the SS prepared for the greater savagery to come.
All this was not so many decades ago. Yet sometimes you have to pinch yourself to be reminded that politics was the business of the 20th century and Berlin the epicenter of an ideological struggle that involved two world wars and the prolonged division of Europe. What, you may ask, is Rosa Luxemburg to Sunday lovers? And what does politics amount to today?
Most Westerners today are no longer driven by politics. By that I mean that they are no longer possessed by political ideas that they feel can change society. There is no great clash of ideologies. Politics in the 21st century has largely lost its capacity to inspire, or if there is a gust of inspiration (as with early Barack Obama) it proves illusory.
People are focused on other matters: personal health, spiritual health, wellness, diet, living longer, and the vast related matter of the health of the planet. Zen, yoga and the soul have trumped the means of production. Of course, wellness in turn raises the issues of climate change and energy consumption, questions that have considerable political content but are not political at their core. The political century has given way to the personal century.
That is one reason why the 20th century already seems so distant, why the Berlin of then and the Berlin of now appear almost unrelated and stumbling on a memorial in the Tiergarten so strange. The last century’s great battles no longer resonate. They bear little relation to people’s harried lives. They are almost quaint.
Technology has built links everywhere, binding humanity as never before, but it has also fragmented people into the solipsistic, magnetic world of their hand-held devices. These devices can be political tools that gather protest movements from Rio to Istanbul, but the movements tend to prove weak because leaderless. The devices are also numbing, isolating and depoliticizing in their idolization of self.
There are, of course, political stirrings in Europe. The political center, and the area just to the left and just to the right of it, seem dead, one reason for the rise of leftist parties like Syriza in Greece, rightist parties like the National Front in France, anti-immigrant nationalists from Sweden to the Netherlands, and big protest movements against the political establishment (of any stripe) like Podemos in Spain. At the heart of all this, it seems, is a sense that something fundamental is amiss in the economies of Western societies.
I said the personal has trumped politics in the 21st century. But of course the link between personal wellness and planetary health is not just about climate change or clean energy. It is also about how the planet’s limited resources are divided up. That division is heavily, and increasingly, skewed toward the very rich. When too much is concentrated in too few hands, a reaction begins. The success of Podemos, or in a small way of the left-wing message of Bernie Sanders in Iowa, is a reflection of this.
Politics is not dead, but it’s dormant, and Berlin remains a useful reminder of how virulent political ideology can be in a climate of social unrest.
Politicians lie, but bettors have a habit of ferreting out the truth. And this is why my article this morning noted that it would be harder for politicians to evade the fund-raising limits that apply to candidates if we relied on prediction markets rather than lawyers to assess whether a politician was running for office.
It turns out that a small prediction market has been running precisely the sort of markets required to figure out if a politician is really a candidate. For instance, there’s a contract on the PredictIt online exchange that pays $1 if Jeb Bush becomes a presidential candidate by June 30. It last traded for 99 cents, up from around 85 cents in the days before he announced that he would soon make an announcement. At those odds, I’m willing to call Mr. Bush a candidate.
There are a few other interesting tidbits to be gleaned from related markets. Bettors finally believe Elizabeth Warren’s protests that she’s not running, and she’s rated only a 1 percent chance to declare in the next few weeks.
By contrast, other Democrats are considered more likely, with the former Virginia senator Jim Webb given a 68 percent chance to run, while Vice President Joe Biden’s stock suggests that there is a 15 percent chance he will declare his candidacy. Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York is a long shot, with only a 2 percent chance. (Missing from this list is the Democratic front-runner, Hillary Clinton, who has already declared her candidacy, along with her fellow candidates Bernie Sanders, Martin O’Malley and Lincoln Chafee.)
On the Republican side, most of the major candidates, except Jeb Bush and Scott Walker, have declared their candidacies. The market rates Mr. Walker only a 9 percent chance to declare before the end of June. I suspect that this says more about the likelihood that he will delay an official announcement until later in the summer than a substantial likelihood that he’s not running.
Chris Christie, Bobby Jindal and John Kasich are the only other major Republican figures yet to declare, and there are no markets (yet) on whether any of them will officially join the race.
The real surprise in all of this (at least to me) is Donald Trump, the perennial tease who has faked out the national press in so many previous campaigns that they no longer take him seriously. Yet the market believes that Mr. Trump is for real this time, rating him a 62 percent chance to file paperwork with the Federal Election Commission sometime this month. Perhaps it is time to take him a bit more seriously. Or at least it’s time to take seriously the idea that he intends to run.
The source of these assessments is PredictIt, which is itself an interesting entity — a small research-based prediction market, run by academics at the University of Victoria, in New Zealand, aided by the Washington-based political technology company Aristotle International. These markets involve real money bets, albeit with pretty small stakes.
In order to obtain signoff from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, it had to impose limits so that the most you can bet on any individual market is $850. The markets remain relatively thin, but still, past evidence seems to suggest that even relatively small prediction markets yield quite useful forecasts.
And finally, some advice. As you try to figure out whether to put more faith in these market-based assessments, or in the specific statements of politicians who just happen to be spending time in New Hampshire and Iowa while considering their options, I would simply suggest that you keep in mind the economist’s dictum: Consider the incentives.
PARIS — It should come as no surprise that horse racing, a sport that has been around for centuries, might be a bit sexist.
Even those with only a passing interest in the sport have now certainly heard about the superstar colt American Pharaoh, and every country’s annual Derby — be it in Kentucky, Epsom or on the Curragh — gets far more attention than similar races for fillies, known as the Oaks. Everywhere, that is, except in France.
The annual Prix de Diane, or French Oaks, in Chantilly north of Paris is the high point of the spring racing calendar. Part of the appeal is the tradition of elegance connected with the race, where high fashion, gourmet picnics and Champagne reign. But driving the party is the feature race, the 2,100-meter Prix de Diane reserved for 3-year-old fillies.
The colts had their say two weeks ago, when New Bay won the French Derby before a relatively sparse crowd at Chantilly. Things will be different on Sunday, when up to 40,000 people are expected to turn out for the fillies in the Prix de Diane.
What makes the fillies’ race so interesting? Because the French Oaks has been the proving ground time and again for equine stars with staying power. Whereas many of the best 3-year-old colts head to a lucrative stud career soon after making their mark in a Group 1 race like the Derby, top racing fillies tend to stay in training longer and tackle ever-tougher competition.
Thierry Grandsir, a pedigree expert and manager of DNA Pedigree in France, noted that 12 of the past 15 winners of the Prix de Diane stayed in training for a 4-year-old season or longer, whereas only 8 of the last 15 French Derby winners did so.
Prix de Diane almunae include Zarkava, the 2008 winner who went on to beat the best colts in Europe in the Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe. Goldikova finished only third in the Diane that same year, but then raced three more years and won a record 14 Group 1 races, nine of them against colts. Treve won the Diane in 2013 and then posted back-to-back victories in the Arc. She is currently preparing to defend her title for a record third time.
“It makes more economic sense if you have a top-class mare to race and then breed later,” said Geneviève Neveux, who runs a small breeding operation in Normandy. “The Prix de Diane is more of a beginning to a career than an end.”
A stallion can cover more than 100 mares a season, for several thousand euros a pop, offering a strong incentive for an owner to cash in rather than continue racing. Intello, for example, the 2013 French Derby winner, stands for 25,000 pounds, or about $38,000, in England, a mid-range fee for a Group 1 stallion. If he covers a reasonably sized book of 80 mares, he could earn about £2 million every spring for the foreseeable future.
A mare, on the other hand, has only one foal a year after 11 months of gestation. Even if Treve had gone to the breeding shed after her first Arc victory, she would have only one foal on the ground now and be carrying a second (assuming everything went well in the breeding process). That first foal would have been unlikely to see a sales ring until next year — if it was offered for sale at all — and it is highly unlikely that it would have fetched more than the €3 million, or $3.3 million, that Treve has earned in the past year on the racecourse.
Treve will still have plenty of time to make babies after her third Arc bid this year, but there is no guarantee her extraordinary talents as a racehorse will pass to her offspring. History has shown that the best race mares often don’t make the best breeding stock.
Zarkava retired undefeated after her 3-year-old season and was then bred to Dalakhani, who won the French Derby in 2003 and then went on to a successful stud career. The birth of the resulting foal was one of the most anticipated events in breeding. But it was a huge disappointment. The foal, a filly named Zerkaza, never saw a racecourse. Zarkava has since visited the best stallions in the world — Galileo, Sea the Stars, Dubawi and Redoute’s Choice — and has yet to produce a single runner.
The jury is still out on Goldikova, who has produced two foals, both by Galileo. The first, a 2-year-old colt named Goldikovic, is in training with Freddy Head and has yet to debut.
There are exceptions, of course, and some champion fillies do pass on their quality. Aquarelliste won the Prix de Diane in 2001 and was second in the Arc that same year. She won 7 of her 10 career starts and went on to be just as successful as a broodmare. She has produced five winners so far, and three of them have placed in stakes races. Some of her daughters have become successful broodmares. One of her daughters, Ame Bleue, will race in the Diane on Sunday.
Daryaba, the winner in 1999, has produced three Group winners. And the biggest exception of all, of course, was Urban Sea, who was only sixth in the Diane in 1992 but went on to win the Arc in 1993 and then began to produce an unbelievable dynasty of champions, including the group-winning stallions Galileo, Sea the Stars and Black Sam Bellamy.
One reason French Oaks contenders have made more of a name for themselves than fillies in other countries is that the French racing program in recent years has offered arguably a tougher program of Group races for fillies than colts. Prix de Diane winners can progress to the Group 1 Prix Vermeille at Longchamp and use that as a steppingstone to taking on the colts in the Arc.
“There is such a good program for stakes-winning fillies now, which we didn’t have 10 or 12 years ago,” Neveux said. “We don’t find this quality of horses in the colts.”
But while the quality of French fillies routinely surpasses the colts, the concept of equal pay for equal work hasn’t caught on. New Bay won €857,100 for his day’s work in the French Derby, while Sunday’s Oaks winner will take home just €571,400.
Donald J. Trump, the garrulous real estate developer whose name has adorned apartment buildings, hotels, Trump-brand neckties and Trump-brand steaks, announced on Tuesday his entry into the 2016 presidential race, brandishing his wealth and fame as chief qualifications in an improbable quest for the Republican nomination.
Mr. Trump declared his candidacy in the atrium of the Trump Tower, the luxury skyscraper on Fifth Avenue in New York City, proclaiming that only someone “really rich” — like himself — could restore American economic primacy.
“We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again,” he said, repeatedly assailing China and Mexico as economic competitors, and pledging to be “the greatest jobs president that God ever created.”
Mr. Trump, 69, has long toyed with running for president as a Republican, boasting of his credentials as an entrepreneur and mocking the accomplishments of prominent elected officials. He has used the platform of a reality television show, NBC’s “The Apprentice,” to burnish his pop-culture image as a formidable man of affairs.
It seems a remote prospect that Republicans, stung in 2012 by the caricature of their nominee, Mitt Romney, as a pampered and politically tone-deaf financier, would rebound by nominating a real estate magnate who has published books with titles such as, “Think Like a Billionaire” and “Midas Touch: Why Some Entrepreneurs Get Rich — And Why Most Don’t.”
But Mr. Trump, who has never held elective office, may not be so easily confined to the margins of the 2016 campaign. Thanks to his enormous media profile, he stands a good chance of qualifying for nationally televised debates, where his appetite for combat and skill at playing to the gallery could make him a powerfully disruptive presence.
In the past, Mr. Trump’s presidential posturing has seldom been taken seriously, and for good reason: Before the 2000 and 2012 elections, he hyped up the possibility of seeking the White House before abandoning the idea.
Mr. Trump’s remarks in Midtown Manhattan were unlikely to allay suspicions that he is entering the race mainly to appear in debates and win attention from the media. He bragged extensively about the golf resorts he owns (“I have the best courses in the world”) and a hotel he is developing in Washington.
Over the course of a more than 40-minute speech, Mr. Trump warned that the stock market may collapse again and ridiculed Secretary of State John F. Kerry for having broken his leg in a bicycle accident.
But Mr. Trump and his allies insist that he is serious about the race. He said he would file all the financial disclosure forms required by the Federal Election Commission, without requesting any extensions from the government. At one point, Mr. Trump held up a one-page document — compiled, he said, by a prominent accounting firm — purporting to show his net worth at around $8.7 billion, with nearly all of his estimated assets in the form of property and licensing deals.
A spokeswoman said he would fill out the election commission paperwork in full, though it is unclear whether Mr. Trump will make a more complete disclosure of tax returns, as is customary for credible presidential candidates.
Associates say Mr. Trump is willing, even eager, to spend his fortune in the race, and has hired staff in the early nominating states. “He has said a couple of times that he could easily put $100 million into the race and that he feels that would not impact him financially,” said Christopher Ruddy, a friend of Mr. Trump’s.
Mr. Ruddy, who is chief executive of Newsmax, the conservative magazine and website, said Mr. Trump would bring an unaccustomed level of glamour to the Republican field.
“He’s got that celebrity status,” Mr. Ruddy said. “Republicans sort of crave that, because we don’t have it, generally.”
Geraldo Rivera, the veteran broadcaster who was a finalist on “Celebrity Apprentice,” said Mr. Trump would quickly leave a mark on the race thanks to his ability as a showman.
“Right now, Jeb Bush is announcing,” Mr. Rivera said Monday afternoon. “Who would you rather watch, him or Trump?”
But as well-known as he is, Mr. Trump is also widely disliked: A recent Quinnipiac University poll found that about seven in 10 voters nationally hold an unfavorable view of him, including 52 percent of Republicans.
Mr. Trump has shown he is eager to scuffle with other Republicans, including Mr. Bush. He has spoken contemptuously, in public and private, about the former Florida governor, and swiped at him repeatedly during the kickoff event.
“I don’t see how he can possibly get the nomination,” he said of Mr. Bush. “He’s weak on immigration. He’s in favor of Common Core. How the hell can you vote for this guy?”
Mr. Trump’s policy views can be just as provocative as his demeanor. In the past, he has called climate change “a hoax” and said he has a “foolproof” plan to defeat the Islamic State, which he will not reveal so as not to tip off the group. On Tuesday, he vowed to build a “great wall” on the Mexican border to keep out rapists and other criminals, who he said were sneaking into the United States in droves.
Until now, Mr. Trump may be best known politically for his outspoken skepticism that President Obama was born in the United States. After his insistent demands during the 2012 race that Mr. Obama release his birth certificate, the president ultimately did just that, confirming he was born in Hawaii.
Mr. Trump has donated money to both parties, including to Democrats such as Hillary Rodham Clinton. When he last entertained a presidential bid four years ago, the conservative Club for Growth labeled him a liberal for his views on trade and his past support for universal health care, and accused him of having exploited government powers, including the use of eminent domain, to expand his real estate holdings.
If Mr. Trump’s ideology has proved flexible, the cornerstone of his worldview has not: He has consistently been a passionate believer in Donald Trump, and his own capacity to bully and badger his way into the best possible deal. That skill set, Mr. Trump has argued, would be an asset to America.
At present, Mr. Trump said, rivals on the world stage do not take the United States seriously.
“They say: that is a group of people, and that is a nation, that truly has no clue,” he said.
Donald J. Trump’s entry into the race for the Republican presidential nomination amounts to his first actual foray into elective politics after several threats. A real estate developer and host of “The Celebrity Apprentice,” he opines about many issues in colorful terms, and is fast on the trigger with denunciations, but does not always make his own policy recommendations clear.
Mr. Trump claimed last month that he had devised a “foolproof way” to defeat the Islamic State “very quickly.” But he refused to divulge it, saying he did not “want the enemy to know what I’m doing.” He calls President Obama “one of the worst things that’s ever happened to Israel,” and blames him for deteriorating U.S.-Israeli relations. He says Russian-backed separatists are acting aggressively in Ukraine because the United States is “not a respected country and we don’t have respected leadership at this moment” – but says America’s European allies should confront Russia.
Mr. Trump – whose mother emigrated from Scotland – says illegal immigrants are “destroying the fabric of the country” while the middle class is getting “decimated.” He opposes efforts to grant legal status to undocumented immigrants, calling that a “suicide mission” for Republicans because “every one of those 11 million people will be voting Democratic.” He proposes instead to fortify the nation’s borders by building “a real wall” to keep immigrants out.
Mr. Trump says that his views on marriage are “evolving” but that he still favors “traditional marriage,” between “a man and a woman.” (He has been married three times.) Same-sex marriage, he says, isn’t his “thing.”
He does not just deny that climate change is occurring; he calls it a hoax, and says those who warn of global warming only want to raise taxes. He is less outspoken on other environmental issues, though he sued unsuccessfully in 2013 to block plans for wind turbines in Scotland that would power 65,000 homes, arguing, in part, that they would mar the view from a golf course he was proposing to build.
Mr. Trump believes reckless government borrowing and stimulative policies by the Federal Reserve threaten the long-term health of the American economy and undermine the dollar, which, he said in 2012, “is going to go to hell.” He strongly opposes the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal, calling it “an attack on America’s business” that fails to penalize Asian nations like Japan when, he says, they engage in currency manipulation to boost exports. He takes particular aim at China, accusing it of currency manipulation and flooding the United States with low-cost exports that “are truly hurting our economy and our jobs” – including, as it turns out, products with the Trump label. He attacked Mr. Obama last year for visiting China and “celebrating the fact that they’re ripping us off.”
Donald J. Trump filed a lawsuit against Univision for $500 million on Tuesday, following the network’s announcement last week that it would no longer broadcast the Spanish-language version of his “Miss USA” beauty pageant.
Univision, the popular Spanish-language broadcaster, ended its association with the event after Mr. Trump denounced immigrants as “rapists” and “murderers” while announcing two weeks ago that he would seek the Republican nomination for president. On Monday, NBC likewise said it would no longer broadcast “Miss USA,” which is taking place in Baton Rouge, La., on July 12.
“Nothing that I stated was different from what I have been saying for many years,” Mr. Trump said in a statement on Tuesday.
Mr. Trump contends that Univision was in violation of its contract by abandoning the broadcast. In the lawsuit, the Trump Organization said that Univision signed a five-year, $13.5 million contract this year to broadcast “Miss USA” and other Miss Universe pageants. The lawsuit also claims that Univision was trying to “suppress Mr. Trump’s freedom of speech.” 
The lawsuit was filed in the New York Supreme Court. Mr. Trump is an owner of the Miss Universe Organization. 
“We just reviewed Mr. Trump’s complaint for the first time, and it is both factually false and legally ridiculous,” Univision said in a statement. “We will not only vigorously defend the case, but will continue to fight against Mr. Trump’s ongoing efforts to run away from the derogatory comments he made on June 16 about Mexican immigrants.”
Also on Tuesday, both hosts for the “Miss USA” pageant, Thomas Roberts of MSNBC and Cheryl Burke, a model and TV host, said they would no longer participate.
“In light of the recent statements made by Donald Trump and the subsequent decision by NBC to cut ties with Mr. Trump, I cannot in good conscience move forward with participating in this year’s Miss USA Pageant as its co-host,” Ms. Burke wrote in a Facebook post.
NBC also said this week that Mr. Trump would not be back to host “The Celebrity Apprentice,” though it plans to keep the show on the air with a new host.
Mr. Trump said in his statement that “Miss USA” would go on as scheduled. An article in The Hollywood Reporter said the pageant would stream on the Miss USA website. 
In a statement, the Miss Universe Organization said, “It is unfortunate that recent events beyond our control have only served to negatively impact the women who participate in the pageant, our state directors, our sponsors and our fans.”
In its falling-apart gorgeousness, Havana is a stage set for many dramas, past, present and future. Cruise the old Miramar neighborhood, with its mansions and parks, and you’re in the 1950s Sin City of Fulgencio Batista. Head to the center of town, where Che Guevara’s face looms, a colossal logo high over Revolution Plaza, and you hit the socialist 1960s, as hard and unyielding as a cellblock wall. Wander from there in almost any direction and you enter the Havana of today, resiliently tight-belted but, with United States links reforged, a platinum-card paradise-to-be.
It was on this stage, or stages, that the 12th edition of the Havana Biennial unrolled in May and June. And, no surprise, the most interesting art was about change, not polish, and was in the form of events and performances, not things. Things are what most biennials are built around: photographs, sculptures, videos, whatever you can pin a medal on.
Havana did have one object-heavy spectacle, a display of works by 150 Cuban artists inside the 18th-century fortress complex known as the Morro-Cabaña. Under the title “Zona Franca,” or “Free Zone,” the show was broken up into a series of mostly one-artist exhibits distributed through its warrens of rooms and cells. The effect was pretty clearly geared to appeal to art-fair-savvy collectors from outside Cuba. This biennial was the first in 15 years to which Americans could legally travel, and Havana was naturally hoping we would arrive en masse.
At the same time, the biennial’s directors took care to designate “Zona Franca” as an appendage to the larger show itself, which they shaped along very different, dematerializing lines, as suggested by the title “Between Ideas and Experience.” The goal was to shift attention away from objects and toward ideas, to break art out of conventional settings and integrate it into the city and its diverse communities.
This emphasis on context made sense. It raised the right questions in a society that continues to define itself, despite a creeping capitalist economy, as seriously socialist. How can a vital art be made for sharing rather than for private ownership? Who is allowed to decide what is art and what is not? And how, in a period that almost everyone acknowledges to be one of transition, do you create an art in progress, an art that can exist in the public realm and reflect the present, without being prematurely monumental?
To some degree, the biennial addressed these questions soundly. The show was spread all over town, from center to periphery, from museums to ruined factories, from libraries to cinemas to parks. In many cases, the work was elusive. It came and went, was hard to find, took you by surprise, made you wonder: What am I looking at? Art, or an accident, or what?
The biennial’s grand opening, for example, was a funny kind of surprise. The festivities were held in a part of town little associated with art, one of Havana’s oldest neighborhoods, working-class Casablanca, across the harbor from the city center. According to the official program, the neighborhood would be chock-full of new art — video, sculpture and so on — with some starry global names attached. But there was hardly any of that. What there was instead was an unannounced performance: a conga band came dancing into town and wound its way through it, pulling residents and visitors alike into a jubilant homage to the distinctive globalism of Cuba’s Afro-Caribbean culture.
It was the first of many performances to come. Participants from abroad brought some. In a cobblestone plaza in Old Havana, the Indian artist Nikhil Chopra locked himself in a cage for three days and silently painted beautiful images of what he could see from behind bars. His was a shrewd take on the notion of island-artist. And when he finally hacksawed his way free late one night, a delighted crowd gathered to greet him, and followed him down the street, Pied Piper style.
If you wandered into an installation titled “This Is Exchange,” by the Berlin artist Tino Sehgal at the Wifredo Lam Contemporary Art Center, the biennial’s headquarters, you were greeted by an attendant who requested that you define the term “market economy.” The test was pass/fail. If you said anything at all, you passed, and were rewarded with a Cuban peso, a coin utterly valueless outside the island’s bizarre dual-currency system.
The wonderful Cuban-American artist Maria Magdalena Campos-Pons (she gives off sparks), who now teaches at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, brought a group of her students to Casablanca a few days after the opening. At midday in the now-quieter neighborhood square, the students asked residents if they would answer some questions about issues in the news: What did they think about the re-establishment of relations with the United States? What reactions did they expect from Americans? Did they think that art could help in cross-cultural conversations? The residents sat down and replied, writing in notebooks provided by the students. Their focused and unreserved participation in Ms. Campos-Pons’s performance was a yes to the last question. Some of their responses, including furious vocal complaints about Raúl Castro’s government, were startlingly unguarded. Could it be, one wondered, that art really did constitute a censorship-free zone here?
The thought occurred again during a performance of a new opera by the Cuban composer Roberto Valera and the Berkeley, Calif., librettist Charles Koppelman, which had its world premiere at the National Art Schools. Called “Cubanacán,” it is based on the life of the Cuban architect  Ricardo Porro. In 1961 he was commissioned by Fidel Castro to design and build the schools, which, with their serpentine coils and humps, remain an extraordinary sight. Five years later he had to flee the country. Cuba had come under Soviet sway, and his funky, sexy structures were judged to be far too idiosyncratic, meaning politically incorrect.
On a first listening, the opera, too, seemed to push against official cultural norms. Its hero is a refugee from the revolution; it pokes fun at Che and Fidel Castro. But no harm done. The jokes are mild. And Mr. Porro, who died last year, was eventually invited back. By allowing his story to be told, the government assumed a strategic veneer of tolerance. It has always used culture to soften the face it turns to the world, and continues to. And along these lines, it was valuable to know that while “Cubanacán” was being presented, censorship of another, quite different performance was underway.
It had been taking place daily since December, when the Cuban artist Tania Bruguera, who has a peripatetic international career, returned home to Havana. Her arrival coincided with the announcement of the political rapprochement between Cuba and the United States. Implicit in this development was the idea that Cuba would gradually loosen up on its policing of public dissent. Ms. Bruguera decided to stage a public performance that would put that to the test.
The piece, titled “Tatlin’s Whisper #6,” is one she has presented before, at the 2009 Havana Biennial and abroad. Its basic components are simple: She sets up a microphone and invites anyone who wishes to speak to do so, uncensored, for one minute. This time, to raise the potential for provocation, she planned to have the event take place in Revolution Plaza, the political equivalent of sacred ground.
Official reaction was swift. As soon as she announced her intentions, the police took her into custody on charges of disrupting public order. The authorities confiscated her Cuban passport and threatened to bring her to trial. If she ventures beyond the city limits, she has been warned, she can be expelled from the country and prevented from returning. Her case has gone nowhere since. (Ten days ago, she was told that the case was being temporarily closed and that she could reclaim her passport and leave the country. But as she is well aware, the case could be reopened in her absence and a sentence of exile passed.)
Despite her legal limbo, she has not been silent.
To coincide with the opening of the biennial, she undertook a live reading with volunteers of Hannah Arendt’s 1951 book, “The Origins of Totalitarianism.” The reading took place on the ground floor of her home. While it was in progress, a government-hired road crew appeared with jackhammers to drown out the voices. When the reading was finished and she left the house, the book under her arm, the police swooped in, hustled her into a car and drove her away for hours of questioning.
The influential Cuban curator Gerardo Mosquera and several non-Cuban colleagues who were in town for the biennial witnessed the incident. Many other instances of harassment have gone unseen. Few fellow Cubans are willing to come to her defense, mostly, no doubt, out of fear. Although she has drawn vigorous support from abroad, her presence has been shadowy since her initial arrest last December. Cuba has one of the lowest rates of Internet connectivity on the planet. Apart from spotty email exchanges and Yo También Exijo (“I also demand”), a Facebook page maintained by her sister, Ms. Bruguera is from day to day pretty much incommunicado, though fully on the Cuban government’s radar.
Whatever the end result, her performance must be counted a success, because it is enveloping, seamless and unstoppable. Every time the police pick her up or otherwise confront her, these officers play their assigned roles; every legal obstacle thrown her way extends the run of the performance, thickens the plot, darkens the mood and exposes realities that Cuban officialdom, including members of the local art establishment, may prefer us not to consider.
There is much we can learn from the 12th Havana Biennial — a performed, dematerialized show — about what art can be, where it can exist and who it is for. From Ms. Bruguera’s performance, we are learning what art can do — risky, truth-revealing things — for artist and audience alike. It may well be that her performance, end not in sight, is the one for which this biennial will be remembered.
A new television station has stepped in to broadcast Donald Trump’s Miss USA beauty pageant: Reelz.
The cable channel, which is available in about 60 percent of the country’s homes and reaches about 70 million viewers, will show the pageant on July 12. The move comes after the decision by NBC and Univision, the Spanish-language broadcaster, to drop their plans to show Miss USA, citing recent comments by Mr. Trump about immigrants.
Stan E. Hubbard, the chief executive of Reelz, said in a statement on Thursday that the Miss USA pageant was the “perfect fit” for his cable network and “this decision is about the dreams of the contestants who come from all walks of life across the United States.”
“The decision on the part of Reelz to acquire the rights to the Miss USA pageant was based on our belief that this special event, and the women who compete in it, are an integral part of American tradition,” Mr. Hubbard said. “As one of only a few independent networks, we decided to exercise our own voice and committed ourselves to bringing this pageant to American viewers everywhere.”
Even though the pageant now has a broadcaster, it still faces challenges in replacing some performers. Two of the co-hosts, Thomas Roberts and Cheryl Burke, dropped out, but another, Jeannie Mai, a daytime talk show host, is staying, saying she couldn’t abandon the contestants.
This is not the first time that Reelz, based in Albuquerque, N.M., has stepped in after a controversy. In 2011, the cable channel broadcast the mini-series “The Kennedys” after the History channel dropped it, saying that it was a “dramatic interpretation” that was not in line with the company’s brand. The mini-series subsequently set ratings records for Reelz.
In the last week, a slew of companies, including Macy’s and the mattress company Serta, have cut ties with Mr. Trump after his remarks in his presidential campaign announcement in which he said some immigrants were “rapists” and “killers.”
After Univision pulled out, Mr. Trump filed a $500 million lawsuit against the network, saying it had violated its five-year, $13.5 million contract to broadcast various Miss Universe beauty pageants.
If the thought of Donald Trump has been lodged in your head of late, exclusively as a Republican presidential candidate, defamer of immigrants and thrice-wed champion of traditional marriage, then it may have escaped your attention that a lush and extravagant municipal golf course bearing his name — Trump Golf Links at Ferry Point — opened this spring on the southeastern shoreline of the Bronx. Paid for by New York City, to the sum of $127 million, and maintained by the Trump organization, the course offers the kind of visual lessons in inequality that make statistics and editorials and Thomas Piketty seem ponderously inefficient.
The view from the hilly course, designed by Jack Nicklaus, accommodates the entirety of the Manhattan skyline across the East River; from one vantage point, all you see is 432 Park Avenue protruding from billionaire’s row. A stretch of housing projects borders the links and so does a tightly packed cemetery, St. Raymond’s, near the Whitestone Bridge, a reminder that in New York death really is an extension of life — so much noise and not enough room.
For years, the notion that a luxury golf course would be built in the city’s most impoverished borough struck many as the equivalent of handing a camisole to a person with frostbite. The justification had been not simply that the enterprise would constitute a means of job creation for Bronx residents — which indeed it has — but also that the course would be so challenging in its play and so indistinguishable from a country club in its sensibility that it would attract major championship competition and in turn millions of dollars in revenue for the city.
But how likely is it now that the United States Open, so dependent on corporate sponsorships, will be scheduled on a public course named for someone who said he is committed to building a wall at the Mexican border to keep out drug dealers and “rapists”? Although you could argue that none of his comments could have been anticipated, getting blindsided by craziness from Mr. Trump is like landing at a monastery only to be surprised that it’s quiet.
A day after Mr. Trump told the Golf Channel that he had “tremendous support from the golf world because they all know I’m right,” the country’s major professional golf associations issued a joint statement saying, “Mr. Trump’s comments are inconsistent with our strong commitment to an inclusive and welcoming environment in the game of golf.” 
That followed the move on the part of NBC Universal to sever ties with Mr. Trump on his television projects and an announcement from the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce that it would no longer consider Trump hotels as sites for two conventions next year that make up the largest meetings of Hispanic business leaders in the country.
“He has no idea what’s coming,” the organization’s president, Javier Palomarez, told me. “The Hispanic community is really galvanized around this.”
Mr. Trump’s involvement in the Ferry Point project highlights the problematic nature of public-private partnerships and the mistakes we make when we assign amusement-value status to people who might actually mean what they say. His position in the presidential race, catering to the far right, leaves him saying so many things potentially threatening to his business interests that it raises the question of whether he really is as much an ideologue as he is an entertainer.
In a statement saying that he found Mr. Trump’s remarks “offensive and disgusting,” Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, added that the city would review its contracts with the Trump organization, which is receiving five years of free rent at Ferry Point while Mr. Trump builds a $10 million clubhouse that the company expects to finish next year.
At the same time, the city itself has not been an exemplary steward at Ferry Point, and what it has reaped from the Trump deal isn’t necessarily obvious. When the construction of the golf course got underway during the Bloomberg administration after a long and complicated history, the city offered certain palliatives in an attempt at precluding and appeasing the inevitable critics. One of the concessions, a nine-and-a-half-acre community park that separates one thread of the course’s perimeter from the Throggs Neck Houses, still doesn’t have a bathroom three years after it opened. While it is under construction, water fountains and sprinklers remain inoperable. (One young mother told me that she remembered a drinking fountain working once, last year, though when she went to use it the water was hot.)
On a recent afternoon, the playground, which looks like a Scandinavian experiment of the kind that might forgo the placement of actual swings, asking children to instead close their eyes and imagine them, was sparsely populated. Several parents told me that was fairly typical, given how little there was to do there. “This is basically a playground with a slide,” the father of a 2-year-old girl said. Many more children were occupying themselves in the playgrounds of the projects across the street, which were better equipped.
The vast expanse of Ferry Point Park that lies opposite the golf course on the other side of the Whitestone Bridge, a park crowded on the weekends with Latino immigrants, has been teased with the prospect of amenities for decades. In the 1930s, Robert Moses planned a beach, bathhouse and bus terminal there. “Unfortunately, the plan was never implemented,” the parks department website notes. Three years ago, when I visited for the first time, the department said that bathrooms in that part of the park were about to be built. They still don’t exist, according to the department, because of delays related to Hurricane Sandy.
There’s no doubt that Mr. Trump could get them done faster. But who wants to ask him?
MEXICO CITY — It is the kind of publicity money cannot buy — front-page coverage, segments on the nightly news, the attention of political heavyweights and a stream of commentary  burning a hole in the web.
But Donald J. Trump, champion of the so-called birther movement that wrongly questioned President Obama’s birthplace, owner of the Miss Universe contest and developer of hotels bearing his name the world over, has not only found fame in the United States, where he is running for president.
He has also found it in Mexico — or infamy, anyway.
“He’s just ignorant,” said Ricardo Arevala, 18, who works at a piñata shop here, adding that someone recently came into the store looking for a smackable rendition of Mr. Trump. “He speaks in stereotypes.”
While announcing his candidacy to be America’s next president last month, Mr. Trump delivered remarks that ended up echoing across Mexico.
“They are bringing drugs. They are bringing crime. They’re rapists,” Mr. Trump said about Mexican immigrants, adding, “some, I assume, are good people.”
While most presidential candidates are positioning themselves to court the Latino vote, Mr. Trump ignited a firestorm with his statement, managing to galvanize the disparate populations of Mexico, both social and political.
A host of Mexican political notables have lashed out at the remarks, including former President Felipe Calderón.
A company controlled by Carlos Slim, the Mexican telecom magnate — who is much, much richer than Mr. Trump, many Mexicans are quick to point out — cut ties on a joint project with him.
Univision said it would not broadcast the Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants, which Mr. Trump partially owns the rights to, and Mexico as a nation has pulled out of the competition.
That is to say nothing of the expletives cast around when describing Mr. Trump in much of Mexico, by every strata of society.
The blowback has struck on both sides of the border, of course. NBC severed ties with Mr. Trump. It is backing out of Miss USA and Miss Universe, which was a joint venture with Mr. Trump, although the show that helped resuscitate Mr. Trump’s profile, “Celebrity Apprentice” (of the “you’re fired” fame), will continue.
Macy’s stopped carrying a line of clothes branded by Mr. Trump, and Emmitt Smith, a football Hall of Famer, and Flo Rida, a rapper, now refuse to participate in the Miss USA pageant.
Many Mexicans understand that as an archetypal capitalist, perhaps best known for real estate whose binding characteristic is a mammoth “Trump” sign, Mr. Trump does not do subtle.
From his vast, rust-orange comb-over to his power suits, Mr. Trump plays for keeps, whether suing business partners for soured deals or issuing statements about his enemies.
But while Mr. Trump has defiantly refused to backtrack, there has been a bit of backpedaling.
He has repeatedly assured the non-rapist and noncriminal Mexicans that he loves them and their country. He says he has done business with people from Mexico. He says he has great respect for Mexicans and “their tremendous spirit.”
The feeling, it seems, is not entirely mutual.
Many have posted YouTube clips deriding the tycoon. Others have posted a litany of words online that, were they not directed at Mr. Trump, he might even appreciate. In the northern city of Reynosa, one piñata maker has fashioned a model after him, coif and all.
The price: about $35.
In his own defense, Mr. Trump has said that all anyone has to do is read the papers to know what is happening along the border.
What he said was true, he has fired back, adding that if people do not like that, they had better brace themselves for President Trump.
His general rancor has increased from there.
He has called for a boycott of Macy’s, slapped Univision with a $500 million lawsuit and called NBC “weak and foolish.”
Mr. Trump posted on his Instagram feed a personal letter from a Univision anchor, imploring him to come on the air and talk. The note included the anchor’s cellphone number. He also told executives at Univision that if any of them or their representatives so much as set foot on his resorts, he would have them apprehended.
But while the fracas over his comments might have hurt his business relationships, they have not appeared to hurt him politically. They may even have helped.
Mr. Trump has seen a bump in the polls in both Iowa and New Hampshire, where he is trailing behind the current Republican leader, Jeb Bush. But whatever his chances of coming to power, Mr. Trump, like others before him, seems to have tapped into a vein of resentment in American society.
It is a popular narrative, after all, that those who cross the border into the United States are fleeing into the embrace of safety, prosperity and opportunity. And that flight, according to Mr. Trump, is precisely what he hopes to block.
“We must have strong borders & stop illegal immigration now!” he said on Twitter, where he has more than three million followers.
But for many Mexicans, the reality is more complex.
Ostensia Bonilla, the 56-year-old sales manager at a party supply shop in downtown Mexico City, has lived in the United States. She moved to Illinois in 2007 with her daughter but, after two years, decided to leave.
“I was worried about the crowd she was hanging out with,” she said. “There were too many people selling and using drugs in her circle.”
And like that, the family moved back, to avoid the very thing Mr. Trump has proclaimed that all of Mexico suffers.
“Of course, we do have drug problems,” she conceded, resting her hands on a wooden box filled with candy. “And Mr. Trump has a right to free speech.”
“But we aren’t the ones using the drugs,” she said. “The addicts are in America.”
Donald Trump has had a bad week.

The trouble began with his inflammatory remarks about Mexican immigrants during a speech to announce his presidential candidacy on June 16.
“When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best,” Mr. Trump declared. “They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”
Over the next week, each day seemed to bring a fresh blow to Mr. Trump. A brief review of the wreckage might make you feel better about your troubles.
The business impact.
The remarks set off a cascade of condemnation that engulfed some of his business dealings, beginning late last week with Univision announcing that it would no longer carry the Trump-produced Miss USA or Miss Universe pageants.
This week, more companies followed.
On Monday, NBCUniversal cut all ties with Mr. Trump, saying it would no longer air the pageants or “The Apprentice.” Televisa, the world’s largest Spanish-language media company, also cut ties. Carlos Slim, the Mexican billionaire, scrapped a television project. And in Chicago, 5 Rabbit Cerveceria pulled out of a beer partnership with a Trump Hotel bar, then renamed some of its beers in a vulgar tribute to Mr. Trump.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump sued Univision, accusing it of violating its contract. Meanwhile, Farouk Systems, a hairdressing company, dropped sponsorship of the pageants and involvement in “The Celebrity Apprentice.”
On Wednesday, Macy’s said it would drop his fashion line, which had been sold in the store since 2004. (If all that wasn’t enough, his hotel chain said it was investigating a possible payment card data breach.)
Petitions created on Change.org and MoveOn.org are pressuring other companies to cut Mr. Trump loose, suggesting the financial toll could continue to build.
The mockery.
As one might expect, late-night comedians have had a field day. Jimmy Kimmel joked that NBC’s rejection of Mr. Trump’s beauty pageants was not because they “treat women like cattle at a state fair. It was the thing about Mexicans.”
Others had more pointed responses. Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York, while announcing that the city is reviewing its contracts with Mr. Trump, said his comments “do not represent the values of inclusion and openness that define us as New Yorkers.” America Ferrera, the actress, said Mr. Trump lives “in an outdated fantasy of a bigoted America.” Eva Longoria invoked Hitler.
He has gained infamy in Mexico too, where an array of political figures lashed out at the remarks.
And yet, polling remains solid.
But its wasn’t all bad for Mr. Trump. In several recent polls he has trailed only Jeb Bush in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, whether nationally or in key states like New Hampshire and Iowa. Plus he can count Senator Ted Cruz among his defenders.
Mr. Trump, meanwhile, is unchastened. He has not apologized.
“Nothing that I stated was different from what I have been saying for many years,” Mr. Trump said in a statement on Tuesday.
No tengo mucho que agregar a la historia de Donald Trump, sus calumnias contra los inmigrantes mexicanos y la consiguiente auto inmolación de su imperio mediático. Excepto tal vez resaltar que lo que tenemos aquí es una historia clásica de inmigrantes en Estados Unidos.
Es un relato de emprendedores de primera y segunda generación que utilizan su iniciativa y coraje para darles a sus descendientes la oportunidad de soñar en grande y convertirse en lo que quieran, incluso en candidatos presidenciales, o quizás en presumidos hambrientos de publicidad, una afrenta a todos los valores que defendieron sus antepasados.
O, en el caso de Donald Trump, en todas las anteriores.
Su padre, Fred Trump, fue un empresario que construyó decenas de miles de apartamentos de bajo costo en la década de 1950 y 60, para residentes de bajos ingresos de Brooklyn y Queens. Era reconocido como un gerente sobrio, ahorrativo, humilde y dedicado a su trabajo. Cuando murió en 1999, a la edad de 93 años, su obituario en el New York Times resaltaba que él mismo mezclaba sus propios químicos para limpiar pisos. El padre de Fred fue un inmigrante alemán, Friedrich Drumpf, que trabajó como hostelero durante la fiebre del oro en el Yukón, en Canadá.
De alguna manera u otra, sus genes dieron vida a Donald Trump: ese magnate catastrófico de casinos, eternamente entrando y saliendo de la bancarrota, y hoy día candidato presidencial del partido republicano, ofrecíendose a proteger a Estados Unidos de una inundación de traficantes de drogas y violadores en la frontera con México.
Esas son sus palabras.
Algunos mexicanos le están devolviendo el insulto, comprando piñatas en forma de Donald Trump.
Aun cuando Trump arriesgó su futuro político al ratificar y repetir sus difamaciones racistas contra hipotéticos violadores, algunos lectores podrán recordar su extraña defensa de un verdadero violador, su viejo amigo Mike Tyson. En 1992, Trump les solicitó a los fiscales de Indiana, donde Tyson había sido acusado de violar a una participante de un concurso de belleza, que le permitieran comprar su salida de prisión por unos cuantos millones de dólares. La oferta fue rechazada, Tyson fue declarado culpable y sentenciado a seis años.
Parece justo, incluso esencial, recordar que Trump no es el único con una postura hostil hacia los inmigrantes entre los candidatos presidenciales republicanos. El mensaje principal del creciente conjunto de aspirantes es que lo que el país necesita en este momento, más que nada, es cerrar sus fronteras y revocar las acciones ejecutivas de reforma migratoria del Presidente Obama.
Escuchar a los republicanos discutir sobre este tema es como estar atrapado en un bar oyendo a la misma banda de músicos de covers que jamás aprende una nueva canción. Me pregunto cuánto tiempo permitirán que Trump siga al frente del escenario, gritando como un descerebrado.
Sigue a NYT América en Facebook y Twitter para leer más noticias de The New York Times en español.
About five years ago, when golf was going through an economic downswing, Donald Trump took the opportunity to buy in, scooping up failed properties. He already had courses emblazoned with his name around the world, but credibility? That eluded him.
Soon major golf tours came calling, bringing big-money, high-profile events to his courses. Major championships — the prized possessions of every club — came next. In short order, Trump had gone from outsider to having a seat in the club. 
Now he is wondering if he will get to keep it.
“I’ve been very loyal to golf,” Trump said Tuesday in a telephone interview. “I own 17 clubs. They all do great. We will see whether or not golf is loyal to me.”
That is the question after the P.G.A. of America on Tuesday became the first major golf organization to pull an event from one of Trump’s properties in response to Trump’s racially insensitive remarks last month about Mexican immigrants during a speech in which he announced his candidacy for the Republican nomination for president.
The P.G.A. Grand Slam of Golf — a year-end exhibition among the winners of the four men’s major championships — was scheduled for October at Trump National Golf Club in Los Angeles.
Instead, it will be moved to a yet-to-be-determined location.
Trump said it was a mutually agreed upon move to protect his friends in the organization from dealing with potential backlash over his remarks, in which he said, referring to Mexican immigrants: “They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists.” He later added, “And some, I assume, are good people.”
The P.G.A. and L.P.G.A. issued statements on Tuesday, with the P.G.A. saying “we understand and support” the decision. The L.P.G.A. said that the Women’s British Open at Trump’s Turnberry Resort later this month would be staged as scheduled, adding that “a change in venue for this prestigious major simply isn’t feasible without significantly diminishing the event.”
“I think those statements are unnecessary,” Trump said. “The voters of this country agree with me. All you have to do is look at the polls.”
Trump later told a Golf Channel reporter days after the June 16 speech that he had “tremendous support from the golf world, because they all know I’m right,” referring to his remarks about Mexican immigrants.
That led the U.S.G.A., P.G.A. Tour, L.P.G.A. Tour and the P.G.A. of America to issue a joint statement disputing Trump’s claims. 
But each organization has connected itself to Trump’s growing golf empire in the past half-decade, staging and agreeing to hold marquee events at his courses.
In addition to the Women’s British Open at the Turnberry Resort, which Trump purchased last year, three other major championships will be held at his courses by 2022: the 2017 United States Women’s Open (at Trump National in Bedminster, N.J.), the 2017 Senior P.G.A. Championship (at Trump National in Potomac Falls, Va.) and the 2022 P.G.A. Championship at his Bedminster course.
And as part of that deal last year with the P.G.A. of America, it moved the Grand Slam of Golf from its traditional home in Bermuda to Trump’s Los Angeles course in a multiyear deal that runs through 2018. The P.G.A. of America’s statement about the move, however, noted that it was for this year.
“I think a lot of people are surprised that it wasn’t all or nothing,” said the former P.G.A. of America president Ted Bishop. “I don’t know what kind of statement the P.G.A. of America makes by saying, ‘We’re not going to do this for one year, but we’re going to go back for all these others.’ ”
Bishop, who was ousted from the organization last year after he made public comments that were widely seen as sexist, was part of the group that entered into a multi-event deal with Trump in 2014. He said that both he and the former P.G.A. of America chief executive Joe Steranka originally wanted nothing to do with Trump or his growing grip on the sport. But once Pete Bevacqua took over for Steranka, he said, he pushed for the two sides to do more business.
In addition to his own original-design golf properties, Trump had increasingly begun acquiring more pieces of the golf market. He purchased the financially struggling properties in Colts Neck and Pine Hill, N.J. He bought the Doral Resort & Spa — and its famous Blue Monster course, which hosts the W.G.C.-Cadillac Championship — out of bankruptcy in 2012. When the U.S.G.A. awarded him a United States Women’s Open in 2012, the door had been opened for others to follow suit.
And if, at the end of the day, golf is not loyal back?
“I have wonderful alternatives,” Trump said. “It’s called — I’ll make a fortune.”
I keep reading that Donald Trump is wrecking the Republican Party. I keep hearing that he’s a threat to the fortunes of every other Republican presidential candidate, because he sullies the brand and puts them in an impossible position.
What bunk. The truth is that he’s an opportunity for them as golden as the namesake nameplates on his phallic towers, if only they would seize it.
The brand was plenty sullied before he lent his huff and his hair to the task. And by giving his Republican rivals a perfect foil, he also gives them a perfect chance to rehabilitate and redeem the party.
As it stands now, he’s using them.
If they had any guts, they could use him.
They could piggyback on the outsize attention that he receives, answering his unhinged tweets and idiotic utterances with something sane and smart, knowing that it, too, would get prominent notice.
They could define themselves in the starkest possible contrast to him, calling him out as the bully and bigot that he is. Then he wouldn’t own the story, because the narrative would be about cooler heads and kinder hearts in the party staring down one of its most needlessly divisive ambassadors and saying: Enough. No more. We’re serious people at the limit of our patience for provocateurs.
There was a hint of this last weekend, when Jeb Bush, whose wife is Mexican-American, lashed out at Trump’s broad-brush comments about Mexican immigrants crossing into America with an agenda of drugs and rape.
Bush labeled those remarks “extraordinarily ugly” and “way out of the mainstream” and said that there’s “no tolerance” for them.
But he didn’t exactly volunteer that assessment. It came in response to a reporter’s question, and it came more than two weeks after Trump’s offense.
Neither he nor Marco Rubio exhibited any hurry in distancing themselves from Trump, though both of them trumpet their personal biographies as proof that they’re sensitive to Latino immigrants.
On Fox Business on Tuesday, Rubio gave a pathetic master class in cowardly evasion, stammering his way though an interview in which he was asked repeatedly for an opinion about Trump. You would have thought that he was being pressed for malicious gossip about the Easter bunny.
He never did manage to upbraid Trump, though he was careful to mention the “legitimate issue” of border security that Trump had raised.
As in 2012, Republicans can’t summon the courage to take on the dark heroes of the party’s lunatic fringe. As in 2012, this could cost them dearly.
The Charleston, S.C., church massacre and subsequent debate over the Confederate flag afforded them an ideal moment to talk with passion and poetry about racial healing.
But the leading contenders reacted in fashions either sluggish, terse, muffled or all three. They showed more interest in fleeing the subject than in grabbing profitable hold of it.
Trump’s rant about immigrants, which he has since amplified, was another squandered moment.
Chris Christie could have made good on his boasts about always telling it like it is and being unconstrained by politesse. Instead he made clear that he liked Trump and considered him a friend. That soft crunching sound you heard was the supposedly hard-charging New Jersey governor walking on eggshells.
Rand Paul claims the desire and ability to expand the party’s reach to more minorities. So where’s his takedown of Trump?
Bush has said that a politician must be willing to lose the party’s nomination in order to win the general election, but that philosophy can’t end with his allegiance to the Common Core. It has to include an unblinking acknowledgment of his party’s craziness whenever and wherever it flares.
Trump’s hold on voters stems largely from his lack of any filter and from his directness, traits that they don’t see in establishment candidates. So his fellow Republicans’ filtered, indirect approach to him just gives him more power.
And while he should be irrelevant, he’s becoming ever more relevant, because he’s exposing their timidity and caution.
They’re wrong to try to ignore him, because the media won’t do that and because he’s probably going to qualify for the debates.
Looking ahead to the first of them, the conservative pundit George Will bought into the notion of Trump as an ineradicable pest who “says something hideously inflammatory, which is all he knows how to say, and then what do the other nine people onstage do?”
Oh, please. That’s hardly an existential crisis. It’s a prompt for an overdue smidgen of valor.
Without any hesitation, they tell him that he’s a disgrace. Without any hedging, they tell him that he’s absurd.
It’s the truth. And for the Republican Party, it might just be transformative.
Republican Party leaders agonize over the prospect that Donald Trump will mount a third-party candidacy that could undermine their nominee. They fear insulting the white working-class voters who admire him. They are loath to tangle with a threat-flinging firebrand for whom there are no rules of engagement.
Since the start of Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, a vexing question has hovered over his candidacy: Why have so many party leaders — privately appalled by Mr. Trump’s remarks about immigrants from Mexico — not renounced him?
It turns out, interviews show, that the mathematical delicacy of a Republican victory in 2016 — and its dependence on aging, anxious white voters — make it exceedingly perilous for the Republican Party to treat Mr. Trump as the pariah many of its leaders now wish he would become.
Even as a cascade of corporations and business partners — from NBC and Macy’s to the chefs at two planned restaurants — rush to sever their ties with Mr. Trump, Republican leaders seem deeply torn and paralyzed by indecision.
A few weeks ago, those divisions were on vivid display at a regular gathering of top Republican elected officials, strategists and the chairman of the Republican National Committee. Over dinner at the Hay-Adams Hotel opposite the White House, some argued for a swift response, fearing Mr. Trump would mar the coming Republican presidential debates with his needless provocations. Others counseled a hands-off approach, fearing attempts to rein him in would only turn him into a political martyr and, worse, tempt him toward that third-party run.
No consensus was reached, and the party chairman, Reince Priebus, left with no clear directive, according to two attendees at the dinner.
Dispirited party elders, worried that Republicans are handing Democratic rivals a powerful campaign weapon by allowing Mr. Trump’s voice to be depicted as representative of the party, are sounding the alarm with growing urgency.
“The Republican Party is making a mistake if they think they can just remain quiet when he speaks up, or to demur or to just lightly distance themselves,” said Peter Wehner, a former official in the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush. “He’s doing tremendous damage.”
Mr. Trump, the New York developer, reality television host and political provocateur, shows no signs of backing off from his remarks, made during his announcement of a campaign for the White House three weeks ago.
“When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best,” he said then. “They’re sending people that have lots of problems. And they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs, they’re bringing crime. They’re rapists.”
In the days after, there has been a striking absence of public denunciations of Mr. Trump from leading Republican candidates for president and the party’s top officials in Washington. Only last weekend did Jeb Bush — after a muted earlier response — call the “rapists” comment “extraordinarily ugly” and “not reflective of the Republican Party.”
But Mr. Priebus took a quieter route on Wednesday. In a brief telephone conversation with Mr. Trump, first reported by the Washington Post, he urged Mr. Trump to soften his tone on immigrants even as he offered praise of his candidacy, according to Mr. Trump and others told of the conversation.
In classic form, though, Mr. Trump quickly thanked the party chairman with acerbic broadsides that could discourage similar attempts to rein him in. Mr. Trump reached out to a New York Times reporter Thursday morning to say the call was “congratulatory,” not condemnatory, and posit that Mr. Priebus “knows better than to lecture me.”
He added, “We’re not dealing with a five-star Army general.”
Mr. Trump’s language about Mexicans highlighted two of the most divisive issues within the Republican coalition — race and immigration. It was Mr. Priebus who led a bracing review of the party’s 2012 losses, resulting in dire warnings about its need to improve its standing with Hispanics. But Mr. Trump’s support is expected to draw heavily from those disaffected white voters who lined up behind Mitt Romney in 2012 — and whom Republicans acknowledge they will need again to recapture the White House in 2016.
“As a presidential candidate, he’s taking a problem we already have as a party and making it worse,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, another White House aspirant. “If we continue this we’re going to accelerate the demographic death spiral we’re in.”
To a degree, the party’s problems with Mr. Trump have come full circle. He first gained attention among Republicans, including Mr. Priebus, when he flirted with a presidential run in 2012, gaining a following as someone who viscerally attacked President Obama. Mr. Trump eventually bowed out, though he continued to question Mr. Obama’s birthplace.
Now, what remains so appealing to many of the white voters who like Mr. Trump is his perceived willingness to tell hard truths about delicate issues — racial and otherwise — that, to their mind, the party establishment is too timid to discuss.
“There are a lot of people who are very angry at the grass-roots level and who are convinced the Republican leaders in Congress are not doing everything for the conservative cause,” said Charlie Black, a former adviser to John McCain in 2008 and Mr. Romney in 2012. Mr. Trump, he said, holds undeniable appeal to such voters.
A poll released by the Pew Research Center in May found that 63 percent of Republican voters view immigrants as a “burden” who compete for jobs, housing, and health care compared with 32 percent of Democrats.
But Mr. Trump also risks alienating from Republicans a crucial bloc of swing voters who lean right on economics but disdain any hint of scapegoating minorities — not to mention a cross-section of minority voters who are offended by his message.
“Republicans have a tremendous opportunity with Latino voters in 2016,” said George E. Pataki, a Republican candidate who described Mr. Trump’s words as “slandering” and called on his fellow candidates to firmly denounce them. “To lose that opportunity over divisive rhetoric would be tragic.”
But any top-down campaign by Republicans to marginalize Mr. Trump might encourage him to follow through with a threat to run on a third-party ballot, a scenario reminiscent of Ross Perot’s 1992 campaign, which diverted crucial votes from President George Bush. Many in the party still blame Mr. Perot, who won 19 percent of the vote, for Mr. Bush’s defeat to Bill Clinton.
“Perot’s intensely nationalist and protectionist politics resonated with a lot of center-right voters that otherwise would have voted Republican,” said Dan Senor, a former Bush administration official who advised Mr. Romney’s campaign. “And the environment today is even more intensely populist. If Trump were to run as an independent, who knows what impact he could have in what will otherwise be a close election?”
That possibility, said Thomas M. Davis, a former Republican congressman from Virginia, is reason enough for the party not to attack Mr. Trump. “You’ve got to keep him in the tent,” Mr. Davis said. “He just wreaks havoc, and every vote he takes comes out of our hide.”
With the party’s first debate scheduled for Aug. 6, Republicans are absorbing the likelihood that Mr. Trump, and his parade of provocations, will be on stage. Fox News has set criteria for participation primarily on the candidates’ standing in national polls, and Mr. Trump is now comfortably ensconced in the top 10.
“He’s 100 percent going to do the debates,” said Michael Cohen, an adviser to Mr. Trump. “I believe he’s either leading or tied for first place in the polls, and certainly qualifies to have a seat on the stage.”
Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump was aware that party bosses were wringing their hands over his presence in the field. “They fear him because he’s not part of the establishment,” Mr. Cohen said.
Some Latino Republican officials said they were dumbfounded by the reluctance of other Republicans to deliver full-throated rebukes of Mr. Trump — and suggested the debates might provide that opportunity.
“The Republican Party is going to have to be much more aggressive in dealing with him,” said Hector V. Barreto, who has advised every Republican presidential campaign since 2000. “And I would expect my party to do that, to call him out.”
He added: “Maybe this is our Sister Souljah moment when we say, ‘He is not a Republican, he does not represent us, he needs to get off the stage.’ ”
Another high-profile chef has dropped out of Donald Trump’s forthcoming luxury hotel in the historic Old Post Office Pavilion in Washington, D.C., after Mr. Trump’s provocative statements about Mexican immigrants.
Geoffrey Zakarian, the chef and a partner at the Lambs Club and other Manhattan restaurants, was to open a branch of the National, his brasserie-style restaurant in Midtown, in the new hotel. But on Thursday, he said in a written statement that “the recent statements surrounding Mexican immigrants by Donald Trump do not in any way align with my personal core values.”
Mr. Zakarian’s decision to abandon the project, scheduled to open in 2016, follows that of the chef José Andrés. Mr. Andrés has said that Mr. Trump’s statements made “it impossible for my company and I to move forward.” More than half of his team is Hispanic, as are many of his guests, the chef said. On Thursday, Mr. Zakarian said, “Zakarian Hospitality employs many immigrants from nations all over the world.”
Mr. Andrés is a Spanish chef who became an American citizen in 2013. Mr. Zakarian and his parents were born in this country; his ancestors emigrated from Armenia and Poland about 100 years ago.
Mr. Trump said in a speech June 16 that some Mexican immigrants bring drugs and crime to the United States, and some are rapists. On Wednesday, the Republican National Committee chairman, Reince Priebus, called Mr. Trump and asked him to speak in more measured tones.
Three navigation coordination points above Palm Beach International Airport that had been named in honor of Donald J. Trump will be renamed, the Federal Aviation Administration said Wednesday.
“In general, the F.A.A. chooses names that are noncontroversial,” said an agency spokeswoman, Laura Brown.
A growing number of businesses have been severing ties with Mr. Trump since the Republican presidential candidate made derogatory remarks about Mexican immigrants in a campaign speech. That includes NBC, which aired Mr. Trump’s show, “The Apprentice.”
In 2010, an air traffic controller who was a fan of Mr. Trump’s reality show and its catchphrase, “You’re fired,” named some of the navigation points that pilots use for takeoff from the airport DONLD, TRMMP and UFIRD.
At the time, Mr. Trump told a reporter with The Palm Beach Post that he was flattered, but Thursday morning, he issued a statement that said:
“‘Making America Great Again’ is far more important to me than an honor I never knew I had ... meaning a blip on the radar,” he said in a statement released by Michael D. Cohen,executive vice president and special counsel at the Trump Organization.
Other navigation points were named IVNKA ONE, in honor of Mr. Trump’s daughter, Ivanka, and BUFIT ONE, after the singer Jimmy Buffett.
Ms. Brown said she wasn’t sure if IVNKA ONE would be renamed as well, but said that nothing would happen immediately.
“Because of the charting cycle, the updates could take several months to take effect,” she said.
The coordinate names are used for a type of instrument area navigation, called RNAV. The points entered into the computer should be five letters long and must be unique to that airport. Ideally, they relate to the area where the coordinates are located.
Mr. Trump has had a long history with the area, where his daughter, Tiffany, was born in 1993. He purchased Mar-a-Lago, an estate built in the 1920s for Marjorie Merriweather Post, in 1985. After renovating it, Mr. Trump opened the estate in 1995 as a private club, though he still maintains a residence there.
He has sued the county repeatedly over the flight noise around the property. In January, he filed a $100 million lawsuit against Palm Beach County, contending that his ongoing conflict with the airport led officials to retaliate by routing all flights directly over his estate.
A 2010 lawsuit was dismissed. A 1995 lawsuit over the noise ended with the county agreeing to lease Mr. Trump the land where he later built Trump International Golf Club.
It’s not uncommon to name flight coordinates after celebrities, real or imaginary. In Orlando, Fla., there are a GOOFY, MINEE, PIGLT and BUGGZ. The flight paths into San Francisco are named with Grateful Dead references, including DEDHD, GRTFL, HYPEE, COSMC, TYDYE and TRUKN. But from the get-go, some pilots were unhappy about honoring Mr. Trump.
Paul Agnew, who was then head of the airport’s advisory committee on noise, was quoted in The Palm Beach Post saying that some pilots were unhappy with the decision to honor Mr. Trump.
“We actually have had reports of people refusing to fly these departures because they are so offended by the fact that Trump has been memorialized,” Mr. Agnew told the airport’s advisory committee during a 2010 meeting.
The flight controller who suggested the names, Gregory Gish, has since retired, the paper reported.
CHICAGO — It is not often that rhetoric from a political candidate finds its way into the sporting arena, but the recent remarks about immigration by the presidential candidate Donald Trump have caused the P.G.A. of America to remove a tournament from one of the golf courses he operates and prompted ESPN and Nascar to remove award events from Trump’s properties.
And when Mexico’s national soccer team opened the Concacaf Gold Cup against Cuba here Thursday, Trump’s assertion that Mexicans coming to the United States were drug traffickers, rapists and other criminals — “some, I assume, are good people,” he allowed — did not go unnoticed. 
There was no sign of an organized protest, either around Soldier Field or in nearby Grant Park, where thousands of fans paraded in the late afternoon, but there were signs. One carried a message to Trump: “Estamos aquí” (We are here). Another declared the stadium a no-Trump zone. During the game, fans broke into a profane chant in Spanish directed toward Trump.
“What he said bothered me,” said Caesar Camarena, an immigrant who works as a waiter in Aurora, Ill., and was attending the game with his son and a group of friends. “We love the U.S.A.”
They were among the stream of Mexico fans who took photos in front of the Spirit of the American Doughboy statue that stands inside the south entrance to Soldier Field in front of a large American flag.
El Tricolor, as Mexico’s team is known, is a great source of pride because many of its best players carve out careers in Europe’s best leagues. But the team’s mercurial performances — barely qualifying for last summer’s World Cup ahead of Panama and New Zealand, then nearly beating powers like Brazil and the Netherlands once it did qualify — also make it a source of angst. 
So, it did not matter that Cuba, already a weak opponent, had lost one of its best players, striker Keiler García, who defected Wednesday. Cuba was also without six other players and Coach Raúl González Triana, who did not arrive because of what an official called “logistical problems.”
Mexico’s 6-0 victory, which could have been even more decisive, was a cause for celebration. The crowd, announced at 54,126, groaned after the near misses, such as when Carlos Vela twice rattled the goal posts, and cheered each goal as if it were a World Cup winner, waving flags and tossing cups of beer in the air. The final minutes elapsed with toilet paper rolls and smoke bombs raining onto the field.
The tournament is critical for Mexico, which saved its best players for the Gold Cup rather than the more prestigious Copa América, which concluded with Chile’s win on July 4. 
Though Mexico’s roster features international stars, such as Vela, who has returned to the national team after a three-year hiatus, and the 2012 Olympics hero Oribe Peralta, who had a hat trick against Cuba, it will have to do without two of its best: forward Javier Hernández and defender Héctor Moreno, who were injured before the tournament.
If Mexico does not win the Gold Cup, which determines the regional champion of North America, Central America, and the Caribbean, it will be shut out of the 2017 Confederations Cup in Russia, a tournament that is a prelude to the 2018 World Cup, which Russia will also host. Not only is the Confederations Cup a chance to scout logistics and acclimate to field conditions, it is an opportunity to play against the best teams in each region of the world. 
If Mexico wins the Gold Cup, it will be in a playoff later this year at a site to be determined against the United States, the 2013 Gold Cup winner, to determine the Confederations Cup entrant for Concacaf, the regional governing body that oversees soccer in North America, Central America and the Caribbean.
“The Confederations Cup is a really important tournament for us,” Mexico midfielder Miguel Layún said. “It gives us a chance to play before a World Cup, to be ready in a better way. Also, you have a good chance to keep raising your hand that you are here in the confederation.”
As singular as the players’ focus may be, Layún said that they could not escape the uproar that Trump’s comments had caused, either in Mexico or here.
“It’s really hard to talk about that because we have a lot of people working here, a lot of Mexicans trying to keep going and improve themselves in their life,” he said. “I prefer not to talk about him. He doesn’t deserve my time or my words.”
Trump’s comments surely hit home for Mexico’s reserve goalkeeper, Moisés Muñoz, who spent his elementary and middle school years in Northern California as the undocumented son of migrant workers. His parents, who have resident status, live in San Jose, Calif.
“We can’t get involved in any political stuff,” he said. “Even if it’s a subject back in Mexico that’s something to do with our politics in Mexico, we can’t say anything about it. It would be a mistake.”
Mexico next faces Guatemala in Glendale, Ariz., on Sunday.
PHOENIX — Donald Trump, the real estate mogul and reality television star who has taken center stage in the race for the Republican presidential nomination this week, delivered a rambling monologue on Saturday, dismissing a long list of critics — including Jeb Bush, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Macy’s — while rallying what he termed a new silent majority of voters.
Mr. Trump had less to say about immigration, the topic on which his comments have garnered so much attention, than about those who have criticized him. For more than an hour, he ticked through a list of businesses and candidates who have tried to censure him since his long-shot campaign began three weeks ago, and made light of their practices and intelligence.
“How can I be tied with this guy?” Trump said of Mr. Bush, whom many consider the Republican front-runner. “He’s terrible. He’s weak on immigration.”
The speech had a distinctly celebratory air as Mr. Trump lauded the “massive” crowds he has drawn and the attention he has brought to immigration and other issues that he said “weak” politicians were afraid to address.
It also demonstrated what his party fears most about him: that he is an orator without regard for decorum who is willing to mock other Republicans.
The speech, hosted by the Republican Party of Maricopa County, drew several thousand people to the Phoenix Convention Center, making it one of the largest events for any candidate so far, though short of the crowd of 10,000 predicted by the Trump campaign. Outside, in the 100-degree desert heat, supporters who could not make it into the room waved American flags and sparred with a smaller but vocal group of protesters.
“The silent majority is back, and we’re going to take our country back,” Mr. Trump declared as he left the stage.
Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, whose tactics in tracking down illegal immigrants drew national attention and a federal ruling against him for racial profiling in 2013, preceded Mr. Trump on stage at the businessman’s invitation.
As he had earlier in the day in Las Vegas, Mr. Trump also brought to the stage Jamiel Shaw Sr., the father of a teenager killed in 2008 by an undocumented immigrant in Los Angeles, to share the story of his son’s death and to endorse Mr. Trump.
Mr. Trump’s trip to the immigrant-heavy border region was the first since he asserted in his campaign announcement on June 16 that those crossing the United States-Mexico border illegally included rapists and criminals. Those remarks have earned Mr. Trump sharp criticism from business and political leaders across the country, including companies such as Macy’s, Univision and NBC that have cut ties with him in recent weeks.
He came to Phoenix after addressing a series of private and public audiences Friday and Saturday in Los Angeles and Las Vegas.
“This has become a movement because people don’t know what’s happening,” Mr. Trump said. “We can’t be great if we don’t have a border.”
His welcome here was not entirely warm. Phoenix’s vice mayor and several pro-immigrant groups had called for the city to bar him from speaking at the convention center, which it owns. Mayor Greg Stanton, a Democrat, rejected those calls, saying he would respect Mr. Trump’s right to free speech.
But just as Mr. Trump’s presence in the nominating race has confounded national Republican leaders trying to expand the party’s appeal to minority groups, his visit here posed a dilemma for state officials trying to distance themselves from the anti-immigrant policies of the recent past.
Arizona’s senators, John McCain and Jeff Flake, both Republicans, decided not to attend the event, as did the Republican governor, Doug Ducey. Mr. Flake also called on the Maricopa County Republican Party to rescind its invitation to Mr. Trump, a request that was ignored.
On Saturday, Mr. Flake said Mr. Trump’s remarks, which he called “intolerant” and “inaccurate,” would hurt Republicans here and around the country as they attempt to appeal to a broader demographic of voters.
“Particularly in Arizona, we have had such a long stretch of this kind of rhetoric and this kind of talk,” Mr. Flake said in a telephone interview before Mr. Trump’s speech. “We seem to be moving beyond that here, and this kind of rhetoric just pulls us back.”
For many here, the event revived an image of the state, embodied by Sheriff Arpaio, as unwelcoming and harsh in its enforcement of illegal immigration laws — a perception that Mr. Ducey has worked hard to dispel. He barely discussed immigration during his campaign last year, and since taking office in January, he has worked to make his mark as a business-centric leader, focused on taxes and improving Arizona’s beleaguered public education system.
Saturday’s crowd, though, suggested that the topic remains a galvanizing force among the Republican Party’s conservative base here. Many who had lined up outside the convention center said Mr. Trump was the only candidate willing to speak up about what they see as the risks of illegal immigration and the failures of federal law enforcement to solve the problem.
“I’m very interested in Mr. Trump,” said Rod Patrick, a 72-year-old retired rancher and small business owner. “It’s not necessarily because he’s a good guy, but I’m fed up with politicians.”
Steve Donaldson, 31, agreed, saying that Mr. Trump’s experience in international business, rather than elective politics, made him the best-prepared candidate for the presidency. Mr. Donaldson said Mr. Trump could have been more artful in crafting his points about illegal immigration, in particular, but thought that the abrasive approach was actually helping him in the polls.
“I think his delivery on some of his points could use a little finesse,” he said, “but that’s also what I like most about him.”
For anyone in New York shopping for a Trump Collection silk tie and matching shirt, or Empire and Success colognes, about the only place left to find such billionaire memorabilia is on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. Not in a department store, though, but in the lobby of Trump Tower.
There, just past the bronze-and-obsidian-glass doors, is a pair of mahogany counters making up the Trump Store. They are not far from the spot where Donald J. Trump announced his presidential campaign last month — and lost many of his business partnerships as a result.
But here, on Mr. Trump’s marble doorstep, the $15 “Make America Great Again” T-shirts and box sets of “The Apprentice” should not be available, either.
Those gilded goods are being sold in a passageway that is meant to be public space, the mahogany counters supplanting a marble bench that was mandated there. The golden three-foot-high Trump Tower sign may be the first thing visitors notice, but just beneath it are the words “Open to the Public 8 a.m. to 10 p.m.”
What was promised as a pedestrian causeway in crowded Midtown Manhattan now more resembles an altar to Mr. Trump, one that New York City officials have struggled for a decade to dislodge. Now that he is vying for the Republican nomination, public-space advocates are hoping all the attention might help resolve their territorial dispute with Mr. Trump.
It is a New York peculiarity that an atrium lined with golden mirrors, Gucci logos and an 80-foot waterfall would qualify as a public amenity. Yet there are privately owned public spaces, colloquially known as POPS, dotting Manhattan and a sliver of Brooklyn.
When the six-story Trump Atrium opened in 1983, the New York Times architecture critic Paul Goldberger declared it “warm, luxurious and even exhilarating.” It draws more than one million visitors annually from around the world.
“It’s on my list of places I always wanted to visit, along with all the museums and other cultural landmarks,” Anna Cherkeszishvili, a Seton Hall graduate student from the former Soviet republic of Georgia, said as she took in the glittering sights from the escalator last week.
She was enjoying an unusual byproduct of the city’s postwar boom. As the streets filled with new skyscrapers and an influx of people, the city sought to create more space for both. Starting in 1961, if developers agreed to include some public amenities on their properties, they were permitted to create bigger buildings. The most famous of these public spaces is arguably Zuccotti Park, thanks to the Occupy Wall Street movement, though POPS exist in an array of buildings, including the Henri Bendel store and the MetroTech Center in Brooklyn.
In the case of Trump Tower, the developer, working on his first signature project, was able to add about 20 floors to the 66-story tower — nearly a third of its total height — in exchange for building public spaces and shops in the atrium.
This meant dozens of extra condominiums worth millions to their builder. A triplex penthouse went for a then-astronomical $12 million.
Yet the gain was not only Mr. Trump’s. A special zoning guideline sets specifics for the space, down to the number of trees and locations of seating.
Between the Trump Grill and the Trump Café on the concourse level are plush tables and chairs open to all, whether or not visitors buy an $8 ham and cheese sandwich. A couple of landscaped terraces are tucked away on the fourth and fifth floors, accessible via the mirrored escalators.
There was also a black marble bench a few feet from the entrance, a popular destination for Fifth Avenue shoppers and workers to relax. Sometime in the last decade — there are no records of exactly when — the bench was replaced with one of the two Trump shopping counters.
The Buildings Department could find no permits for the work; permission was not granted by the Department of City Planning to alter the regulations for the public space. The Trump Organization was fined $2,500 for the violation in 2008, but there has been no further action, and the violation remains open and unresolved. A Buildings Department spokesman said recourse was limited because the space presented no public hazard.
Michael Cohen, an executive vice president at the Trump Organization, said all work had been done appropriately.
“Everything regarding Trump Tower has been done correctly, legally and in full compliance of law,” he said. “To assert that Donald Trump did construction on the iconic Trump Tower building without the required permits is ludicrous.”
The bench has been contested territory from the beginning. Shortly after the building opened, the bench was covered with large planters that prevented anyone from sitting there. City officials quickly notified Mr. Trump of the issue.
His response was typically direct. “We have had tremendous difficulties with respect to the bench — drug addicts, vagrants, et cetera have come to the atrium in large numbers,” Mr. Trump wrote in an April 16, 1984, letter on file with the City Planning Department. “Additionally, all sorts of ‘horrors’ had been taking place that effectively ruined the beautiful ambience of the space which everyone loves so much.”
Philip Schneider, a former senior planner with the department, handled what Mr. Trump referred to as “the bench problem.” He was surprised when the developer showed up himself, rather than sending his architect or lawyer to address the matter.
“The problem always is, a deal is a deal, and once the developer gets what they want, how do you ensure the public still gets what was promised?” Mr. Schneider said. “He said it was better, but his idea of an improvement may not be the same as everybody else’s.”
An agreement was reached the next year and the bench was restored, offering respite for at least two decades.
If a few feet of marble seems trivial in a city of thousand-foot towers and millions of people, it is precisely because of all that crowding that POPS can receive so much scrutiny. For Jerold Kayden, a professor at Harvard’s Graduate School of Design and the author of “Privately Owned Public Space: The New York City Experience,” such encroachments are what break down the city’s civic bonds.
“It may seem insignificant, but that bench was a beacon to people that this was an open, welcoming space,” Mr. Kayden, who founded the Advocates for Privately Owned Public Space, said during a tour of the space last week. 
Now, visitors are welcomed by Mr. Trump’s face, smiling from the covers of his books.
Candidates running for president spend a lot of their time soliciting donations. But they are also donors. Where they put their money is a pretty good litmus test of their ideology.
Jeb Bush made 53 donations to federal candidates and single-candidate political action committees in the election cycles from 1990 to 2014, the most of any presidential candidate except for Donald Trump. Mr. Bush’s donations stand out among the Republican field in how closely his ideology matches that of the people he gave money to. The difference between Mr. Bush’s ideology and that of the average recipient of his money, weighted by the donation amount, is nearly nonexistent.
Then there is Mr. Trump. He describes himself as “very conservative” and has positioned himself well to the right of the main contenders in the Republican field. But his donations don’t come close to reflecting that worldview.
In 2012, Mr. Trump began donating exclusively to Republicans. But before that, more than half of his donation dollars to federal candidates went to liberals. In a 2011 interview on Fox News, Mr. Trump justified his donations to New York Democrats, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton among them, by saying New York State was so liberal that making donations to conservatives would be “stupid.”
These differences in ideology are calculated using Crowdpac scores, an index measuring the ideology of candidates for federal office (from the most liberal at negative 10 to the most conservative at 10). The scores are based primarily on the ideology of a candidate’s donors, as well as that of the recipients of the candidate’s donations.
Based on the Crowdpac scores of the Republican field, nearly all of the mainstream Republican candidates, on average, give to solid Republicans: people who are not very moderate, but not extremely conservative either.
All candidates to the right of Mr. Bush donate more moderately than their ideology, whereas Mr. Bush and the more moderate candidates donate to people further right than themselves. The result? Chris Christie, moderate enough to be elected governor by the purple New Jersey electorate, ends up with his average donation recipient not far to the left of that of Ted Cruz, who aligns with the Tea Party.
Of course, this pattern exists partly out of necessity. Mr. Cruz, who has the highest Crowdpac score at 9.5 out of 10, would be hard-pressed to find a candidate more conservative than himself to donate to.
Marco Rubio has donated directly to only one federal candidate, Representative Lincoln Díaz-Balart, a relatively moderate Republican who is no longer in office. His only other direct candidate donation, to Gov. Charlie Crist of Florida, a Republican who switched to the Democratic Party after leaving office, was at the state level.
A similar alignment of donations can be seen among the mainstream candidates on the Democratic side. Bernie Sanders sits solidly to the left of Mrs. Clinton and Martin O’Malley, but each candidate’s average recipient has a Crowdpac score within 0.5 of one another.
The long-shot candidates on both sides have much more erratic donation histories than their more mainstream counterparts. Lincoln Chafee, a long-shot candidate for the Democratic nomination, has made an ideological mix of donations.
Mr. Chafee, a Republican before September 2007, spent time as a liberal-leaning independent until he joined the Democratic Party in 2013. Before leaving the Republican Party, Mr. Chafee gave to many moderate Republicans, including his middle-of-the-road father, who was a senator in Rhode Island. But he also contributed to establishment Republicans like President George W. Bush, and social conservatives like Rick Santorum and Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. After leaving the Republican Party, Mr. Chafee took a hard shift left, donating heavily to Barack Obama, among other solid liberals.
Ben Carson, a Republican candidate relatively new to politics, made the opposite shift. In 2002 and 2006, he donated to congressional candidates on the left. Mr. Carson’s next donations to federal candidates, not occurring until 2012, went exclusively to Republicans, the presidential nominee Mitt Romney among them.
Some candidates have also done a fair amount of donating over the years to politicians who became their rivals this year. Mr. Bush has given to Lindsey Graham and Mr. Rubio; Mr. O’Malley has given to Mrs. Clinton; and Mr. Christie has given to Mr. Bush. None have reciprocated.
Donald Trump is exactly what the Republican Party deserves.
The Republican Party has nurtured anti-immigrant, xenophobic nastiness for years, but it has tried to do so, at least at the national level, in language that disguised it as a simple issue of law and order.
Trump has blown all that to bits.
Trump is now leading in the polls as measured by support of likely Republican primary/caucus voters, according to a USA TODAY/Suffolk University poll released this week. Although, it should be noted, he leads with only 17 percentage points in the crowded field, just three points ahead of Jeb Bush, a gap that is still within the poll’s margin of error.
But Trump leading in the polls is all the media needs to allow Trump to also lead the debate. There is nothing a television camera likes more than spectacle.
Let me be clear: Trump will not be the president of the United States. But I firmly believe that Trump not only knows that, he doesn’t want to be president. Trump is brand-building. This is all free publicity for a salesman in the business of selling himself.
In the same USA TODAY/Suffolk University poll, Trump has a staggering unfavorable rating among all voters, including Democrats and independents. According to the newspaper: “In the poll, 61 percent have an unfavorable impression of him and 23 percent a favorable one.” In comparison, “Bush’s favorable-unfavorable rating is 35 percent-42 percent.”
But Trump is milking his moment.
There is a cottage industry among some public people that is breathing new life into the adage “all press is good press.” These people use ignobility as an elevator; they inflame their way to infamy. They get the country talking and their names trending, then they turn that cultural currency into hard currency.
Every minute Trump is on your television screens, it’s good for Trump. Every time Trump’s name is mentioned on social media, it’s good for Trump. Every time someone writes about Trump, it’s good for Trump. This column is good for Trump.
But Trump is an egotist. He is at the center of his own universe. He’s not so much concerned about politics, or his party or the presidency. Trump is good for Trump.
But, what’s good news for the Trump brand could prove disastrous news for the Republican brand.
Trump recently boasted, “I’m, like, a really smart person.” I believe that’s true — not necessarily in the erudite, intellectual sense, but rather in the instinctive, people-reading sense.
When Trump made his campaign announcement last month, he said:
“When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.”
Set aside the fact that he provided no evidence of the Mexican government’s “sending” anyone to this country. Set aside the fact that, as The Washington Post put it, “data show that new immigrants — including illegal immigrants — are actually less likely to commit crime, not more.”
Facts are not the point for Trump. He spouts so much unsubstantiated idiocy that trying to correct it all would drive any respectable fact-checker mad. Indeed, taking Trump seriously enough to attempt the appropriate fact checks, in a way, only serves to elevate his obvious provocations to serious rhetorical argumentation.
Some corporations distanced themselves from Trump in the wake of his comments, but Trump seems to be making the calculation, probably rightly so, that the business he loses by being in the news is worth less than the free airtime that doing so affords him.
The whole point of Trump’s perfidy is provocation, which is itself a way of positioning him for more profits. Republicans get excited; Trump gets richer. Detractors get angry; Trump gets richer.
This is where his true gifts are on display, this form of emotional intelligence and business acumen, the ability to tap into and exploit other people’s emotions, even those whose response to him is revulsion. This is the art and craft of the demagogue.
You have to see Trump’s statement for what it was: A naked attempt at Willie Horton-izing Mexican immigrants, and thereby the exploiting of the image, substantiated or not, of the brown-bodied predator destroying our country and taking the virtue of our women.
It provides language for people to hide their racism and nativism inside the more honorable shell of civility and chivalry. It allows Trump to tap into anger and call it adulation.
Trump knows how to get a rise out of people, and he’s doing it.
On Sunday, Senator Lindsey Graham, another of the gaggle of Republican presidential candidates, said of Trump on CNN:
“I think he’s hijacked the debate. I think he’s a wrecking ball for the future of the Republican Party with the Hispanic community and we need to push back.”
But the Republican Party isn’t innocent here. Trump isn’t imposing a poisonous view of Hispanics; he’s voicing it. And he’s voicing it in precisely the blunt and noxious terms that a sizable portion of the party feels it and in which they want to hear it discussed.
While some Republicans have sought to distance themselves from Trump, if not completely condemn him, the terrain of those responses has been wobbly. This allows all the more weight to Hillary Clinton’s charge that Republican candidates are “on a spectrum of hostility” when it comes to immigrants.
But there are also Republicans who outright applaud Trump. As Senator Ted Cruz, another Republican presidential candidate, put it:
“When it comes to Donald Trump, I like Donald Trump. I think he’s terrific. I think he’s brash. I think he speaks the truth.”
As long as portions of the Republican Party laud the divisive, fact-challenged Trump as a terrific truth-teller, the party’s brand will continue to sustain incalculable damage, particularly among the vital immigrant population.
There is no need for anyone to have one ounce of sympathy for the G.O.P. Its chicken has come home to roost.
LACONIA, N.H. — There are many, many things Donald Trump would like you to know about how he would run the country. As he told a standing-room-only crowd here the other night, turning America around would be a lot like running the Trump National Doral golf club in Miami, which he bought when it was in bankruptcy in 2012.
He is really smart. “I’m really smart,” he boasted in Phoenix last weekend before rattling off his résumé highlights. “Went to the Wharton School of Finance. Even then, a long time ago, like the hardest, or one of the hardest, schools to get into.”
People like him, clamor for him, must see him. Describing for an audience in Las Vegas how demand to see him at a recent event was so high, he said the venue managers had panicked and called, “begging us not to be there.”
He is not wrong on this last point — even if he does sometimes embellish the size of his following, as he did here in New Hampshire. He declared that of the 300 or so people who packed a suffocatingly hot banquet hall, there must have been three times as many outside. There were not. And by the end of his speech, that estimate had ballooned to “thousands of people outside.”
But the question that is giving so many Republicans heartburn today is how a man so few took seriously is suddenly a leading presidential contender. Listening to Mr. Trump as he campaigned across the country over the past week, and talking to the people shouting “U.S.A! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” who crammed into halls and ballrooms by the hundreds and sometimes thousands, shed some perspective on his appeal, and on the void he is filling in Republican politics.
Mr. Trump is not, as many Republicans have suggested, merely a renegade agitator who sneaked up on the party establishment and threatens to spoil its plans for a tidy, civil primary. Rather, he has become the new starring attraction for the restless, conservative-minded voters who think the political process is in need of disruption.
Some align themselves with the Tea Party movement. Others call themselves independents or Republicans who are just fed up. The praise they heap on Mr. Trump — “He speaks the truth,” “He’s fearless,” “He’s not politically correct” — echoes the words conservatives have used to describe others, like Sarah Palin and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who have stirred their passions before.
“I think he means what he says,” said Kristi Eglody, 63, a retired school counselor from Manchester. “He loves America, and he wants it to be better. And that’s what I love about him.”
Jerry DeLemus, 60, of Rochester, N.H., said he liked the idea of voting for a candidate who had not been in politics very long and found Mr. Trump’s swagger inspiring. “You won’t leave confused about where he stands,” he said. “And how fun would it be to watch him debate Hillary Clinton?”
“We need the truth,” Mr. DeLemus went on. “We don’t have to like the truth. But we need it.”
The adulation that Mr. Trump is enjoying now can be a complicated, paradoxical gift. Voters like Mr. DeLemus, who said he tended to vote Republican and identified with the Tea Party movement, often draw motivation from outsize personalities like Mr. Trump. But they have also generally rejected any singular figure as a leader. And in that sense, Mr. Trump could find his moment fleeting, the latest showman to lead a movement that has so far refused to be led.
Mr. Trump has found success by putting a sharper edge on a popular conservative message: that the United States is an exceptional nation run by unexceptional people who are fundamentally altering what it means to be American.
In Las Vegas, he lamented: “We don’t have victories anymore. We used to have victories. We used to be great.”
In Phoenix, he said: “We have stupid leaders. The American dream is dead. But I’m going to make it bigger, better and stronger.” To chants of “U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” he vowed: “Don’t worry, we’ll take our country back. Very soon.”
The implication is that he will take the country back from incompetent leaders and undocumented immigrants. And this is where there is a darker side to his promises to make America great again, one that many critics, including Republicans, say feeds on xenophobia and racist caricatures of immigrants.
To reinforce his claims that Mexico is sending rapists and murderers across the border in droves, he has been traveling the country with people whose relatives were killed by immigrants who entered the United States illegally. He has them share their stories.
“The illegals come in, and the illegals killed their children,” he said at a news conference in California recently as he introduced the victims’ family members. One man talked about how his son had been crushed to death under the car of an undocumented immigrant. A woman accused the news media of hiding the nationalities of the people committing crimes like these. “They never tell you what nationality they are,” she said. “Most of them are Mexican.”
Mr. Trump’s attacks on Mexicans seems politically shortsighted, many Republicans say. Every month for the next two decades, 50,000 Hispanics turn 18 and will be eligible to vote.
And some of his supporters acknowledge that he has gone too far with some of his comments, though they still believe that he makes valid points about illegal immigration. “He probably didn’t really think about how that was going to come out,” said Paula Borbotsina, 69, of Manchester, who said she liked Mr. Trump mostly because she believes he would not feel beholden to anyone. “But a lot of bad people are coming over.”
But many of Mr. Trump’s followers acknowledged in interviews deep suspicions about Mexico. Some said they doubted whether President Obama was a citizen, a misrepresentation Mr. Trump has reinforced repeatedly.
“Finally here’s somebody who has some common sense and is not just pandering to people,” said Tom Mosier, 77, of Bisbee, Ariz., which is near the Mexican border. Both he and his wife, Ginger, drove up to hear Mr. Trump in Phoenix and said they believed that the president was a Muslim and was not born in the United States.
Mr. Trump brushes off the charges that he is race-baiting and swears he has nothing but respect for Mexico — mostly because, he often says, their leaders are “much sharper, smarter and more cunning” than ours.
“I love Mexico!” he insists. Same for the Chinese. “I love China! I sell apartments for $10 million, $15 million, $25 million to people from China,” he said in Las Vegas.
Mr. Trump’s events are drawing the committed and the curious. And the large crowds he attracts seem to be a mix of people who want to do more homework for voting, and others who just want proximity to a celebrity and a picture. While many say they are attracted to Mr. Trump’s candor and his success, there are also many others who are not quite sure they can see themselves voting for him.
Bill Davies, 53, was on vacation in New Hampshire this week and decided to drive with his wife to Laconia because they were both intrigued by Mr. Trump. Mr. Davies, from Boston, said he was impressed but not quite sold.
“No one else is that direct,” he said. “No one else is going to speak their mind like that. But he’s a bit of a cartoon character, you have to admit.”
IN Rome about a dozen years ago, I had a long dinner with Donald Trump.
Only his name was Silvio Berlusconi.
Aren’t they essentially the same man? The same myth?
They have the same obsession with their wealth. Same need to crow about it. Same belief that it’s the irrefutable measure of their genius. Same come-on to countrymen: If I enriched myself, I can enrich you.
They’re priapic twins, identical in their insistence on being seen as paragons of irresistible lust. If hideously sexist utterances ensue, so be it. Loins before decency. Pheromones over good sense.
And the vanity. Oh, the vanity. During my meal with Berlusconi, who was then the prime minister of Italy, he grew most animated when complaining about Italian journalists’ put-downs of him as a dwarf.
A dwarf! He stressed to me that he was taller than José María Aznar, Spain’s leader at the time. A few years later, on a television talk show, he informed Italians that he was “definitely taller” than Napoleon. And a few years after that, at a political rally, he proclaimed: “I am taller than Putin and Sarkozy,” referring to his Russian and French counterparts. “I don’t understand why all the caricaturists portray me as a dwarf, whereas the others are allowed a normal height.”
We give in, Silvio. You’re a mountain among midgets.
And we admit it, Donald. No one’s hair sweeps the heavens like yours.
You two are the biggest, the best, shaming all the rest.
Now will you please just let us be?
Trump shows no signs of doing that. Last week he made a new bid to be envied, once again unzipping his accounts and flashing the world his finances. This time he claimed to be worth about $10 billion, which is almost certainly a gross exaggeration. His assets expand with his ego.
His popularity with voters does, too, according to recent polls, which showed him at or near the head of the pack for the Republican presidential nomination. I don’t expect this to last, but it probably means that we’re stuck with him through at least a few debates.
So it’s time to search for solace, and perhaps there’s some in knowing that he’s not a peculiarly American creation, nor is he a particular indictment of our political culture and electorate.
Those Italians whose art we bow down before and whose food we fetishize have a Trump of their very own, a saucy, salty dish of Donald alla parmigiana. They repeatedly elected him, so that he could actually do what Trump is still merely auditioning to do: use his country as a gaudy throne and an adoring mirror as he ran it into the ground.
Trump is Berlusconi in waiting, with less cosmetic surgery. Berlusconi is Trump in senescence, with even higher alimony payments.
Trumpusconi is a study in the peril and pitfalls of unchecked testosterone and tumescent avarice. It’s a commentary on wealth in the Western world: how ardently certain blowhards pursue it, how much the rest of us forgive in those who attain it, how thoroughly we equate money and accomplishment.
It’s a comedy. It’s a tragedy.
It’s even a porn flick — or close to one. Trumpusconi stars overlapping cads who cultivate dovetailing images as epic playboys.
“Best Sex I Ever Had” blared a front-page headline in the New York Post in 1990. It ostensibly quoted Marla Maples, the second of Trump’s three wives, but a skeptical reader wondered who really planted that story, especially as the years went by and Trump’s boasts flowered:
“All of the women on ‘The Apprentice’ flirted with me, consciously or unconsciously. That’s to be expected.”
“Oftentimes when I was sleeping with one of the top women in the world I would say to myself, thinking about me as a boy from Queens, ‘Can you believe what I’m getting?’ ”
“I’ve said if Ivanka weren’t my daughter, perhaps I’d be dating her.”
But those are puny bleats next to Berlusconi’s trumpeting. A few years ago he assessed his erotic impact, musing: “When asked if they would like to have sex with me, 30 percent of women said, ‘Yes,’ while the other 70 percent replied, ‘What, again?’ ”
The two billionaires’ tasteless words are so interchangeable that it’s sometimes hard to tell who said what, but you can test your skill with a quiz, Name That Narcissist, that accompanies this column online.

I’M not the first to notice the uncanny Trump-Berlusconi resemblance. Four years ago my Times colleague Timothy Egan mulled it, and in a Vanity Fair story, “La Dolce Viagra,” Evgenia Peretz wrote: “Imagine a President Donald Trump with the media holdings of Rupert Murdoch and the sexual tastes of an aging Charlie Sheen, and you’re approaching the idea of Berlusconi.”
But Trump is now an even bolder presence (and threat) on the political landscape than he was then. As I gape at him afresh, I’m transported back to my two years as The Times’s correspondent in Rome and my two meetings with Berlusconi.
Like Trump, Berlusconi built his fortune with real estate. He then bought media outlet after media outlet, infiltrating people’s hourly lives, imprinting himself on their very consciousness. A similar impulse animates Trump, who has emblazoned his name not just on skyscrapers and casinos but on mattresses, clothes, cologne.
They’re both after omnipresence, and they both understood early on how crucial television was to that. Berlusconi took ownership of Italy’s airwaves, which he used to broadcast game shows and news programs with women in various states of undress. Trump took partial control of the Miss USA and Miss Universe pageants, and played the lord of all capitalism on “The Apprentice.”
To their profound chauvinism they add racial insensitivity, though, in fairness, Berlusconi’s doesn’t have Trump’s calculated, meanspirited edge. Berlusconi’s infamous crack about the Obamas — that the couple must have gone to the beach, because they looked tanned — pales next to Trump’s anti-immigrant tantrums and xenophobic rants. In a clip from a radio interview released on Friday, Trump called for a boycott of Mexico, saying that “it’s a corrupt place” that treats America “very, very badly.” He pledged not to set foot there. A howl of grief rose from Guadalajara, and Ciudad Juárez wept.
Both men have learned that they can turn such cloddishness to their advantage, by casting it as unvarnished candor. Sloppy talk becomes straight talk. Insult becomes authenticity, even if it’s pure theater and so long as it’s a hell of a show.
And self-regard goes a long, long way. It can be mistaken for wisdom. It can masquerade as vision. With enough of it, the clown transforms himself into a ringleader. The dwarf looks like a giant.
Donald Trump’s surge in the polls has followed the classic pattern of a media-driven surge. Now it will most likely follow the classic pattern of a party-backed decline.
Mr. Trump’s candidacy probably reached an inflection point on Saturday after he essentially criticized John McCain for being captured during the Vietnam War. Republican campaigns and elites quickly moved to condemn his comments — a shift that will probably mark the moment when Trump’s candidacy went from boom to bust.
His support will erode as the tone of coverage shifts from publicizing his anti-establishment and anti-immigration views, which have some resonance in the party, to reflecting the chorus of Republican criticism of his most outrageous comments and the more liberal elements of his record.
His surge in the presidential polls began on June 16 when he declared his candidacy. Announcements of that type always yield a wave of media coverage, just as they did for candidates like Ted Cruz or Marco Rubio. So far this year, media attention from announcements has helped the best-known candidates by an average of six percentage points, with the effect degrading steadily afterward.
But Mr. Trump has not received an ordinary amount of media attention, and he has not received an ordinary polling bounce. He has been perfecting the art of attracting media attention for more than two decades, first in New York and then nationwide. Today, he is a celebrity, the biggest and best-known personality in the race, someone who would attract an unusual amount of attention and interest even if he said nothing unusual or interesting. Mr. Trump, of course, made unusual and provocative comments from the start, saying in his announcement speech that Mexican “rapists” were entering the United States.
The amount of news media coverage of Mr. Trump dwarfed the attention received by other candidates. His post-announcement bounce has dwarfed other candidates’ surges as well. In taking the lead in some polls, he has justified another wave of media coverage and attention that continues to the article you’re reading right now.
It is tempting to attribute Mr. Trump’s surge to something more than media coverage, to assume that his positions must have unusual resonance with Republican voters, or to infer that Republicans are clamoring for an anti-immigration candidate. Those factors do play a role, but the predominant force is extraordinary and sustained media coverage.
The polling is consistent with the media-driven explanation as well. His support does not follow ideological lines, as Harry Enten of FiveThirtyEight has observed. It is not even clear that he has more support among immigration hard-liners than other Republicans. A Politico article titled “The Mystery of the Trump Coalition” struggled to identify which issues or demographics drove support for Mr. Trump. There might not be any.
Media-driven bumps occur all the time. Michele Bachmann, Rick Perry and Herman Cain all rode bits of good news to a lead in national polls in 2011. They even occur in general elections, like after a party convention, when voter preferences are far firmer than they are in a 17-way primary. Google Trends data indicates that the interest in Mr. Trump rivals or even exceeds the interest in Mitt Romney after the Republican National Convention and presidential debates in 2012.
But media-driven surges are not sustainable. Eventually, the media coverage shifts from whatever initially propelled the bounce — an announcement, a strong debate performance, a convention — toward a more serious examination of the candidate newly at the top of the polls. Some candidates can withstand this scrutiny. Most do not.
Lynn Vavreck, who contributes to The Upshot, and her fellow political scientist John Sides described the cycle of boom-bust candidacies as “discovery, scrutiny and decline” in their book “The Gamble.” Mr. Trump, who already enjoys high name recognition, may not present a typical case of “discovery,” but it’s highly unlikely he’ll avoid decline after encountering scrutiny.
Even a cursory look at Mr. Trump’s political record reveals a candidate with serious liabilities once journalists and campaigns started taking him seriously. He has donated more to Democrats than Republicans over the last decade. He has even donated to Hillary Rodham Clinton, whom he has said he likes, and the Clinton Foundation. He has supported universal health care and seems to continue to do so. He has supported a $5 trillion dollar tax increase and has said he is “very pro-choice,” although he has since changed his position on abortion. He is self-evidently unelectable in a general election, combining terrible poll numbers with an unpresidential persona.
Conservative candidates and their supporters view him as a rival. They have every incentive to publicize those of his views that the G.O.P. considers heretical. More moderate and establishment-friendly Republicans oppose his statements and views on immigration. They fear that his tone will alienate Hispanic voters, who are considered essential to the party’s general election chances now and in the future. Mr. Trump’s supporters will start taking cues from the uniform opinion of their fellow partisans.
Until today, the big question about Mr. Trump was when coverage would shift toward a serious examination of him. Journalists and campaigns have, understandably, been reluctant to treat him as a serious candidate. The Huffington Post, for instance, decided it would cover him in the entertainment section. But eventually, campaigns were bound to treat him as a threat to be neutralized, and journalists would decide he was a candidate who needed to be covered.
Today, Mr. Trump brought the shift upon himself. His comments were nothing less than an invitation for the rest of the Republican Party to begin their long-awaited offensive. So far, the Republican National Committee, Rick Perry, Bobby Jindal, Jeb Bush and Scott Walker have already criticized him for his comments.
After today, Republican commentators and campaigns will have far fewer reservations about attacking Mr. Trump. They will be dismissive of his candidacy, and they will probably diversify their attacks, expanding the onslaught to include his record of donating to Democrats and his continuing support for universal health care. Nearly all of the campaigns have incentives to pile on, and Mr. Trump — without a deep base of support and with few party allies — will struggle to hold on.
He will probably try to stoke support and coverage with more attention-grabbing remarks, though my hunch is that his act will have lost its novelty by the time the attacks begin to take their toll. Voters will be looking for more from him than the bombastic campaign he has offered so far. They will be looking for a serious presidential candidate, and they won’t find one.
AMES, Iowa — Donald J. Trump has made his name in politics with provocative statements, but it was not until Saturday, after the flamboyant businessman turned presidential candidate belittled Senator John McCain’s war record, that many Republicans concluded that silence or equivocation about Mr. Trump’s incendiary rhetoric was inadequate. 
Mr. Trump upended a Republican presidential forum here, and the race more broadly, by saying of the Arizona senator and former prisoner of war: “He’s not a war hero. He’s a war hero because he was captured. I like people who weren’t captured.” 
Mr. McCain, a naval aviator, was shot down during the Vietnam War and held prisoner for more than five years in Hanoi, refusing early release even after being repeatedly beaten. 
Mr. Trump and Mr. McCain have been engaged in a war of words over the past week, since the Arizona senator said that Mr. Trump was riling up “crazies” in the party with the inflammatory remarks about illegal immigrants from Mexico.
Yet Mr. Trump’s comments on Saturday drew condemnation from his rivals and senior officials in the party at a scale far greater than the response to his portrayal of Mexican immigrants as rapists. The response was an indication of the reverence many Republicans have for military service and sacrifice. But it was also something more: their best opening yet to marginalize Mr. Trump.  
After weeks when many of them treaded lightly around Mr. Trump, who once again Saturday refused to rule out a third-party run, Republican leaders seized the opportunity to unambiguously speak out against a candidate they see as effectively hijacking their primaries. 
Yet for all the outrage among party elites, some attendees at the Christian conservative conference where Mr. Trump made his comments were not nearly as offended, a reminder of the chasm between the Republican power structure and its grass roots. 
With his attack on Mr. McCain, Mr. Trump, whose caustic language about immigration has lifted him in early polls, created a new, revealing litmus test for how the Republican presidential hopefuls are handling the bombastic real estate mogul. 
Several of Mr. Trump’s Republican opponents immediately denounced his comments, and one said the remarks disqualified him from the presidency.
“Donald Trump owes every American veteran and in particular John McCain an apology,” said Rick Perry, the former Texas governor, upon taking the stage. Mr. Perry argued that Mr. Trump’s comment made him unfit to be commander in chief.
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said that anybody serious about being president would not be disrespectful of prisoners of war, and predicted that the early nominating states would render an unmistakable verdict on Mr. Trump’s candidacy.
“Here’s what I think they’re going to say: ‘Donald Trump, you’re fired,’ ” Mr. Graham said to laughs and applause.
For Mr. Perry and Mr. Graham, both retired Air Force officers who have struggled to get traction in the race, Mr. Trump’s comments represented an opportunity to highlight their own military service and demonstrate to primary voters that they would not tolerate any impugning of a veteran. 
As telling was the difference between how Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas reacted to Mr. Trump. Both are running aggressively in Iowa and pursuing the sort of conservative voters who are now considering Mr. Trump.
Mr. Walker, who leads in early Iowa polls, had previously resisted criticizing Mr. Trump. But in a sign of how quickly Mr. Trump’s provocation reshaped the expectations of how candidates should treat him, Mr. Walker immediately changed course after Mr. Trump questioned Mr. McCain’s military record. 
“I unequivocally denounce him,” Mr. Walker said at a campaign stop in Sioux City, Iowa.
Mr. Cruz, who poses a threat here on Mr. Walker’s right, was more cautious. He told reporters before his remarks here that Mr. McCain is “an American hero,” but added that he would not “say something bad about Donald Trump.” 
Mr. Cruz’s reluctance to confront Mr. Trump was perhaps best explained by the reaction to Mr. Perry’s denunciation: While many in the crowd applauded, the ovation did not last long and nobody in the audience of nearly 3,000 stood to show their approval.
“It was not important to me,” said Rose Kendall, an attendee from Burlington, Iowa, of Mr. Trump’s comment on Mr. McCain. “He said that because John McCain talked him down.”
Many Democrats noted that there had been far less opprobrium for Mr. Trump after he began his candidacy in June by saying of Mexican immigrants: “They’re bringing drugs, they’re bringing crime. They’re rapists and some, I assume, are good people.” 
Republicans also treated the businessman more delicately in the 2012 campaign, when Mitt Romney, the party’s nominee, sought and publicly accepted Mr. Trump’s endorsement even after the businessman had questioned whether President Obama was born in the United States. 
Speaking to reporters after his turn on stage, Mr. Trump tried to soften the remarks, saying that any United States veteran who was a prisoner of war was heroic. He also shifted his comments to assuage veterans, saying that Mr. McCain had failed to address their needs.
“I’m with the veterans all the time,” he said. “I consider them heroes.”
Asked about his own military draft status, Mr. Trump, 69, said that he received medical deferments from the Vietnam War because of a bone spur in his foot. Mr. Trump could not recall which foot was afflicted.
Yet Mr. Trump’s awkward and ill-suited remarks about religion and marriage here may have done more damage to his candidacy, at least with Christian conservatives.
“I’m a religious person,” Mr. Trump offered. “I go to church. Do I do things that are wrong? I guess so.”
Mr. Trump also struggled to answer if he had ever sought forgiveness from God, before reluctantly acknowledging that he had not. “If I do something wrong, I try to do something right,” he said. “I don’t bring God into that picture.”
And Mr. Trump raised eyebrows with language rarely heard before an evangelical audience — saying “damn” and “hell” when discussing education and the economy — while also describing the taking of communion in glib terms. “When we go in church and I drink the little wine, which is about the only wine I drink, and I eat the little cracker — I guess that’s a form of asking forgiveness,” Mr. Trump said.
If all that was not enough to roil the button-downed crowd, he also described his three marriages in starkly frank terms, conceding that he had difficulty finding a work-life balance.
“It was a work thing, it wasn’t a bad thing,” Mr. Trump said. “It was very hard for anybody to compete against the work.”
Despite his marital problems over the years, Mr. Trump said that he was always available to his children and that he did his best to have dinner with them on most nights even when his work was grueling. He worked hard, he said, to instill good values and steer them away from drugs, alcohol and cigarettes.
“I was actually a great father,” Mr. Trump said. “I was a better father than I was a husband.”
It was these comments, not his attack on Mr. McCain, that prompted the most muttering and unease in the audience. 
“Well, I was turned off at the very start because I didn’t like his language,” Becky Kruse, of Lovilia, Iowa, said of Mr. Trump, not mentioning his comments about Mr. McCain. Ms. Kruse said she likes Mr. Trump’s hard line on immigration and came to the event considering him. “I was not too impressed,” she said, noting Mr. Trump’s comment about not seeking God’s forgiveness. “He sounds like he isn’t really a born-again Christian.”
In what passes for normal inside Donald J. Trump’s unorthodox campaign for president, he flew from Arkansas to Iowa on his Trump-emblazoned jet on Friday, arrived the next morning at a candidate forum without any prepared remarks and, wearing a bright red tie that evoked his days on “The Apprentice,” told the world exactly what he thought about Senator John McCain’s reputation as a war hero.
It was an improvised fit of pique, roundly and vigorously denounced by his rivals all weekend, that exposed the biggest vulnerability of Mr. Trump’s campaign for president: It is built entirely around the instincts and grievances of its unpredictable candidate  — and does not rely on a conventional political operation that protects presidential hopefuls from themselves. 
In a reaction that highlighted the problem, Mr. Trump refused on Sunday to apologize for declaring that Mr. McCain is “not a war hero” because he was captured and instead boasted in an interview that his talk in Iowa had aroused “the biggest standing ovation” of the day.
The remarks about Mr. McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, ended any qualms party officials had about criticizing Mr. Trump for fear of alienating his supporters and might normally have led to days of backpedaling and extended explanations. Even as Mr. Trump insisted that no one was troubled by his comments, his small group of aides emailed one another about how to respond to the growing criticism.
But the word “sorry” is not in Mr. Trump’s lexicon, and apologizing was not an option that was discussed, people privy to the internal debate said.
In a sign of the seat-of-the-pants nature of his campaign, it sent out a series of dissonant messages, some trying to tamp down the controversy (by showing support from veterans) and others going on the attack (especially of the media).
It remains to be seen whether Mr. Trump’s standing in public opinion surveys will suffer from the episode with Mr. McCain. But recent national and early-primary state polls put Mr. Trump in the top tier of candidates.  
If nothing else, the weekend reaffirmed that Mr. Trump is running a presidential campaign on his own unique terms.
Never mind that his top rivals for the Republican nomination treat campaigning like a full-time job. For Mr. Trump, the task of seeking the White House occupies half his time, he estimated in an interview. (“It’s probably 50-50,” he said.)
The rest of the Republican field’s top tier has cast a wide net to find experienced political aides. But Mr. Trump has plucked much of his team from inside his own corporate empire. (The résumé of his Iowa co-chairwoman: She was a contestant on “The Apprentice.”)
While his competitors may be busy working through thick stacks of books on world affairs to prove their qualifications, Mr. Trump says he has little use for such. (“One of the problems with foreign policy,” he explained, “is that it changes on a daily basis.” As a busy man, he added, he prefers newspapers.)
There is no real policy shop churning out position papers, or for that matter a well-staffed central headquarters plotting his long-term message, or speechwriters drafting — or modulating — his words. And there is a circular, interoffice quality to what the campaign does with its money.
But the dangers of Mr. Trump’s approach are now being laid bare. Bare-bones improvisation, which seemed sufficient to fuel his ascent in the polls, is starting to backfire.
Mr. Trump faces a moment of real reckoning. Is the man known for the catchphrase “You’re fired!” willing to soften his caustic language? Will he slog through the grueling rituals of a long campaign? And, above all, will his message keep resonating — or will his own outlandishness undermine his candidacy, turning it into his latest exercise in brand-building?
So far, tellingly, he is continuing to criticize Mr. McCain, and has shown little interest in building a conventional campaign.
“I’m not trying to arm the country,” he said in a lengthy interview last week, emphasizing that he does have staffs in the first three states in the nominating process: Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.
The reality is that Mr. Trump is pulling off something that, for now, requires little planning, spending or organization: He is giving voice to a profound rage in the Republican electorate — over economic displacement, illegal immigration and America’s diminished place in the world.
“I have a pulse to the ground,” he added. “I think I know what’s wrong with the country, and I think I’ve been able to portray that in a way that people agree with.”
Unlike in the past when he mused about the presidency, Mr. Trump is putting a team on the ground as well. He has hired at least four workers in New Hampshire, for example, and has visited Iowa nearly a dozen times. He hired a campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, a New Hampshire resident who previously worked for Americans for Prosperity, a political action committee financed by the conservative billionaire Koch brothers.
Over all, he has spent $1.4 million on his campaign, most of it out of his own pocket, and less than half of what Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio have spent.
Exasperated aides, who said they were tired of making the case to skeptical reporters that Mr. Trump was really running, called those moves evidence enough that a legitimate campaign was taking shape.
“Nobody’s asking Jeb Bush if he’s serious about running,” Mr. Lewandowski said last week, adding that his candidate’s place in recent polling spoke for itself. “I don’t know what to do. I don’t know which metric you want to measure it by.”
The unorthodox tenor of Mr. Trump’s campaign may flow from its unusual origins. He has, of course, flirted with running for office before, as early as 2000 as an independent presidential candidate (he did not do it) and then 2011, when he talked about mounting a bid for the White House. (Again, he did not.) In 2013, he floated the idea of running for governor of New York. (He decided not to.)
This time he declared a candidacy. And despite questions about his sincerity, his commitment seemed to grow as his business deals became imperiled by the remarks he made about Mexican immigrants during his announcement speech last month. In that speech — an hourlong riff, delivered without a teleprompter — he said Mexico sent the United States criminals and “rapists.” 
Those close to him said he was surprised that, in the uproar that followed, NBC severed ties with him, ending his long run on “The Apprentice,” the show that made him a television star, not just a developer. Soon, Macy’s, the P.G.A. and a prominent chef who was developing a restaurant inside a new Trump hotel in Washington followed suit.
Without his hit show as an option, Mr. Trump has little left to lose by staying in the race and conducting an increasingly provocative campaign. In fact, he may have something to reclaim — a brand that firmly identifies with the working Americans who are flocking to his events.
Hank Sheinkopf, a longtime political operative who has watched Mr. Trump for decades, said that every time a business cancels a contract with Mr. Trump, his supporters view him as the victim of entrenched, powerful institutions that do not have the interests of regular people in mind. 
In any case, Mr. Sheinkopf said, Mr. Trump will benefit even if he never makes it to Election Day, by appealing to working-class white voters (and potential consumers of his corporate brand) who feel dispossessed by contemporary politics. “His real business is giving out his name as a franchise,” he added. “His business is being Donald Trump.”
But his staying power in the campaign remains highly uncertain. He has never committed to remaining in the race even through its first contest, the Iowa caucuses, early next year, although he has left open the option of running a third-party race.
And his many businesses still beckon. Last week, in keeping with his “50-50” time commitment to running for president, he took a break from the campaign to attend a ribbon-cutting at a Trump-owned winery in Charlottesville, Va. Those looking for Mr. Trump’s views on policy were treated to a sales pitch for what he called the largest winery on the East Coast.
“More important than the size,” Mr. Trump told the crowd, “we make the finest wines.”
In an interview on Sunday, Mr. Trump showed no sign of changing his style.
He checked off the names of those attacking him over his remarks about Mr. McCain, insulting Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana and former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas in the process.
“Jindal, who has nothing,” he said. “Rick Perry — I mean Rick Perry, give me a break here.”
WASHINGTON — Of the many offenses Senator John McCain has committed in the eyes of his most ardent conservative critics — supporting an immigration overhaul, for example, or more recently calling some of them “crazies” — a poor record on veterans’ issues is not one that has ever come up. 
That left Donald J. Trump with few defenders after the attacks he leveled at Mr. McCain over the weekend, and facing a barrage of condemnation himself on Monday over his own commitment to veterans’ causes as well as the propriety of attacking a former prisoner of war who is honored as a hero. 
Mr. Trump, a businessman who is running an outsider’s campaign for the Republican nomination for president, first said that Mr. McCain was “not a war hero” because he was captured after bailing out of his Navy jet during the Vietnam War. Then he said that as a senator Mr. McCain had failed to lead on military and veterans’ issues, while he has championed their cause.
Mr. Trump did soften his words somewhat late on Monday when he told Bill O’Reilly of Fox News that he has respect for Mr. McCain and said, “Certainly if there was a misunderstanding, I would totally take that back.”
But veterans’ groups said Mr. Trump was in no position to criticize anyone, and denied that he is the longtime ally he claims to be. 
“Donald Trump is not a leader in veterans’ philanthropy, unless he’s donated a lot of money that nobody knows about,” said Paul Rieckhoff, founder and chief executive of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. “We were founded in New York. We are headquartered in New York. I’ve been here 10 years, and I don’t think I’ve ever even seen Donald Trump.” 
Mr. Trump’s attacks were all the more misguided, veterans’ advocates said, because Mr. McCain has an extensive record of being helpful and involved. He has played a leading role in passing numerous pieces of legislation that aim to improve veterans’ health care.
In just the last year, Mr. McCain was a key player in negotiations with Senator Bernie Sanders, a Vermont independent who was then chairman of the Veterans Affairs Committee, to pass a broad-based overhaul of the Department of Veterans Affairs after the disclosure that staff members had been manipulating wait times to make it appear that patients were receiving care faster than they were. 
Mr. McCain was also a lead sponsor of the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act — one of the first pieces of legislation that became law after Republicans took over Congress this year.
Mr. McCain’s office said Monday that it was currently processing 600 veterans-related cases and had dedicated five of its 10 case workers to working on Veterans Affairs complaints full time.
For his part, Mr. McCain, who is now chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, demurred on Monday when asked if Mr. Trump should apologize to him. Rather, he said, Mr. Trump should apologize to the men and women who have been captured in war and whose service Mr. Trump appeared to belittle. 
“I think he may owe an apology to the families and those that have sacrificed in conflict and those who have undergone the prison experience in serving their country,” a reserved Mr. McCain said in his first comments on the matter on the MSNBC program “Morning Joe.”
“There are so many men and some women who have served and sacrificed who happened to have been held prisoner — to denigrate that service I think is offensive to most of our veterans,” Mr. McCain added.
Mr. McCain’s friend Senator Lindsey Graham, who is also seeking the Republican presidential nomination, was more direct. “To anybody who suggests that John and his fellow P.O.W.s are somehow lacking in the title of being called American hero, you shouldn’t be our commander in chief because you don’t know our military,” he said without mentioning Mr. Trump’s name.
Why Mr. Trump would single out veterans’ issues and Vietnam as a line of attack — when his own record on the subject is not extensively documented, and he avoided serving in Vietnam by receiving a medical deferment — is unclear. Mr. Trump and his campaign advisers have pointed to a few examples of Mr. Trump’s advocacy decades ago, including his donation of over $1 million to build a Vietnam veterans memorial in New York in the 1980s and his underwriting of a parade honoring veterans in 1995. 
Writing in USA Today, Mr. Trump said on Monday, “It was one of the biggest parades in the history of New York City, and I was very proud to have made it possible.”
His campaign also noted that he had put on various benefits for organizations like the Wounded Warriors Project and had hosted active-duty soldiers and veterans at his golf courses. 
But a review of publicly available records of Mr. Trump’s charitable contributions shows that relatively little of his money has gone to programs that support veterans. While he has donated millions of dollars to charities like the United Way and the American Heart Association, records show that he gave at least $20,000 and possibly as much as $50,000 to the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund in 2003 and 2004. He donated in later years for unspecified amounts.
Even some of Mr. Trump’s allies said that they would not quibble with Mr. McCain’s record. “Don’t get me wrong, I think John McCain is strong on veterans’ issues,” said Joel Arends, chairman of Veterans for a Strong America, which defended Mr. Trump over the weekend in a statement that his campaign issued in a news release. 
“The problem is not John McCain’s record. The problem is how do we run government and is government going to be responsive to men and women who’ve laid their lives on the line for this country,” Mr. Arends said, adding that he believed Mr. Trump had hit a nerve by identifying the inefficiencies and breakdowns in veterans’ services.
Some advocates said they were hoping that the glare of media attention that Mr. Trump has turned on them would be of benefit. “I’ve gotten more media calls today than I probably have in the last 11 years,” Mr. Rieckhoff said. “But this is a bigger conversation than whether or not Trump said something stupid.”
To the Editor:
Re “No Hero, Trump Says of McCain, Stirring Outrage” (front page, July 19):
I don’t have much in common with John McCain philosophically. I didn’t vote for him in 2008, and I have often cringed as he has opposed various initiatives of the Obama administration. But one thing can be said about Senator McCain with absolute certainty: He is nothing if not a war hero.
For Donald Trump to suggest otherwise is an unfortunate personal attack on a man who has devoted his life to the service of his country. However much one may disagree with John McCain politically, his personal sacrifices and his heroism are beyond question.
STEVEN B. ALDERMAN
Manlius, N.Y.
To the Editor:
Starting in 1950, Senator Joseph McCarthy cut a wide swath of damage, unchallenged except by a few, for demagogic rants about Communists. Then came the 1954 Army-McCarthy hearings and Joseph N. Welch’s never to be forgotten “Have you no sense of decency, sir” after Senator McCarthy’s baseless attack on a young lawyer in Mr. Welch’s office.
“Have you no sense of decency, sir” fits like a glove Donald Trump’s similarly baseless attack on John McCain’s Vietnam War captivity at the Hanoi Hilton. As with Joseph McCarthy, it will be the turning point that leads to the downfall of Donald Trump. 
DONALD NAWI

Scarsdale, N.Y.
To the Editor:
The Republican presidential hopefuls now denouncing Donald Trump’s loathsome attack on John McCain have conveniently forgotten the “swift-boating” of another war hero, John Kerry, the 2004 Democratic candidate for president.
Given this history, the G.O.P. anti-Trump breast-beating is at best disingenuous and at worst odiously hypocritical. 
JUDITH HAMERA

Pennington, N.J.
To the Editor:
This storm was precipitated by Senator John McCain, who called the attendees at Donald Trump’s Arizona event “crazies.”
Haven’t we heard enough disparaging remarks made about Republican voters? It was inappropriate for Senator McCain to refer to those Americans as crazies.
ANDREA ECONOMOS
Scarsdale, N.Y.
This article was initially published as a letter to subscribers of The Upshot’s newsletter. You can sign up for the email here to get this and all of the best of The Upshot.
A recent article about Donald Trump’s strength in the polls and his much-criticized remarks about John McCain’s war record attracted many passionate and funny comments across the political spectrum.
hopeforchange, USA
Moderate Republican here ... please make him go away! He does not speak for me!
Andrew Allen, Wisconsin
Frankly, I find The Donald’s tirades refreshing. American.
It’s like watching a drunken commoner pouring out his frustrations to a powdered wig upper crust who roll their eyes and gasp at the effrontery.
McCain can take care of himself. This is just a little dust-up where adversaries spit insults. But The Donald makes a point when it comes to servicemen getting the short end of the stick. Why...after years facing MORE hazards and getting LESS pay less than civilians... do they have to fight for benefits they were promised? Why do they have to put up with substandard hospital care? In fact, why does ANY serviceman have to pay for medical care at any time of their lives?
Where have you been, Mr. McCain? Mr. Kerry? Take off your powdered wigs and act like Americans.
Paul, Phoenix
Let’s remember, in 2010 McCain drew a strong Tea Party challenger in the G.O.P. Senate primary and defeated him by outflanking him on the right (“Just build the danged fence.”)
In 2014, the AZ Republican Party voted overwhelmingly to censure McCain for being too liberal and for failing the conservative cause.
Trump knows his appeal is on the extreme right fringe of the G.O.P. This statement about McCain plays well with them.
Believe me, the hard right in Arizona would try McCain for treason if they could.
ERP of Bellows Falls, Vt.
Yes, it’s all over for Trump. Only an idiot would attack McCain (and all other P.O.W.s) the way he did.
But we all knew he was an idiot long ago. Why didn’t the media say so?
Probably because their policy is that if there are a serious event and a freak show going on at the same time, cover the freak show.
Austexgrl of Austin, Tex.:
Where was all this indignity when the " smear " was on about John Kerry from the Republicans? I did not hear anything from John McCain or his family then?? If they are so indignant about people captured/ tortured/ bemoaned by that horrific war... why did they not speak out for John Kerry?? Or are they only concerned about Republican soldiers?
Ralph, Cherry Hill, N.J.
I have laughed off Trump so far, but what worries me is the precedent set by Reagan, the two-bit actor. I once laughed off his candidacy too. The public couldn’t be that stupid, right? Am I right? Hello? Is anyone listening?
Dan, Colorado
The Donald is an enjoyable gift to the Democrats by exposing the Republican base. Keep talking, Donald, keep talking.
Joeleeh, NYC
Trump likes to say the Chinese laugh at us. I expect they are certainly laughing tonight as they review the polls.
Memi, Canada
Trump has always just been in this for the notoriety. He was never a serious candidate.
What is much more troubling is why the hounds keep chasing these fake rabbit trails. You can call it a media bump if you like, but what we really have here is an electorate that sincerely wishes a candidate would rise up like a messiah and lead us all into a better world, or at back to an America covered in the kind of glory that is all but gone.
That’s what “Take back America” means and it can be sold by anyone who has charisma and is willing to say anything and everything to get into the news cycle. That most of these flash in the pan candidates are winnowed out by the serious ones is small comfort when you realize that all those who create the “media bump” in the first place really do want this kind of candidate to become the next president.
Hate to say this, but it was Obama’s thrilling oratory, a relative newcomer coming out of left field with tons of charisma that got him elected. When it became clear he couldn’t walk on water the tide turned quickly. It’s all such a ridiculous show when you consider what is really at stake. In every election there are serious candidates with seriously great platforms, but if they can’t sell it, the American populace won’t buy it.
Trump sells himself. It’s what he does. That a clown like him could get as far as he did is amazing. Bye bye now. Who’s next?
Walker Lewis admits he would never have moved into Trump Tower, at 721 Fifth Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, five years ago if it were not for his wife, who already owned an apartment there on the 43rd floor.
If anything could get Mr. Lewis, who works in software and says he “leans Republican,” to vote for his upstairs neighbor in the coming elections, it would be Donald J. Trump’s commitment to the building — even if it can be over the top, like Mr. Trump himself.
“The building is a little cheesy,” Mr. Lewis, 38, said on Tuesday morning outside the lobby. “But that doesn’t change the fact it’s a great place to live. The staff are just amazing.”
He described Mr. Trump in a way few watching his Republican presidential campaign might — as a friendly face in the elevator, always warm and polite.
“He may have this crazy public persona, but around the building, we don’t see that,” Mr. Lewis said. “It’s not his ‘you’re fired’ shtick or the stuff you see on the stump.”
It remains unclear how the daily flamethrowing of Mr. Trump will be received in the cornfields of Iowa or coffee shops of New Hampshire. But those who call the gleaming towers of the Trump empire home have been watching his intemperate run for the presidency with a mix of pride, amusement and, in some cases, disapproval. And more than anyone else, they already know life in a world ruled by Mr. Trump.
In a highly unscientific straw poll of residents of a half-dozen Trump-branded buildings in New York and New Jersey this week, support was almost certainly strongest at Fifth Avenue and 56th Street, where Mr. Trump works and often sleeps in the penthouse on the 66th floor (when not staying at one of his numerous other homes).
“He runs the building incredibly well,” said Carol Friedman, heading out for lunch with her husband.
Nicoletta, a resident from Italy who declined to give her surname while walking her Maltese on Tuesday, said she would vote for him if she could. “He could be the American Berlusconi,” she said, referring to Silvio Berlusconi, the media tycoon turned Italian prime minister, whose occasional legal troubles apparently did not dim her regard for him. “And unlike Hillary Clinton, Donald Trump has no skeletons in his closet.”
But some Trump residents begrudgingly pay rent or monthly maintenance to a man they said they would never vote for. “I’d like to hope that most people in this building can sense that he’s not someone you’d want as your president,” said Alex Pabom, 40, who has lived in a studio at Trump Place, one of a string of buildings along Riverside Boulevard, for nearly a decade.
Mr. Trump continued his campaign against blandness on Tuesday by releasing the cellphone number of Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who called Mr. Trump a “jackass” for his shot last week at the war record of Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona. And Mr. Trump continues to draw fire for his remarks this month calling illegal Mexican immigrants drug traffickers and rapists.
Mr. Trump certainly relies on a number of immigrants in his buildings, and some residents described fury and anguish among the doormen, porters and elevator operators, while other workers expressed fierce loyalty to their boss. One guard at Trump Tower joked of being able to join the Secret Service, and a doorman at the 55-story Trump Palace on East 69th Street said he defends the building from angry passers-by.
“People yell at me because I stand outside a building with Trump’s name on it,” said the doorman, who declined to give his name to protect his job. “Some people say they should take the name off the place, but I just say, it’s a free country. He can say what he wants.”
Just then, an older man with a cane ambled by, waving it at the building and cursing. “He does that all the time, every time he passes this place,” the doorman said.
As for the foreign buyers who have flocked to Mr. Trump’s gilded properties, many expressed indifference or even ignorance of his comments on immigration — comments that seemed to bother their American neighbors far more.
Yet just because his name graces the facades, often in story-high letters, it does not always mean Mr. Trump owns the buildings. Among the thousands of Trump apartments built over the decades in the metro area, some are through partnerships or licensing agreements with other developers, though the Trump Organization does generally manage the properties.
Yoel Shahar, a plastic surgeon, is so fond of Mr. Trump’s work that he has apartments in two of his buildings, one he owns at the Trump Palace and another he rents at Trump Place.
“He’s willing to go to places most people aren’t willing to go,” Mr. Shahar, 60, said. “Why do you think he’s leading in the polls? He’s speaking to the people!”
If any residents have misgivings about Mr. Trump’s run for the White House, the firm has not heard about it, according to Ivanka Trump, the executive vice-president for development and acquisitions and possible first daughter. “We haven’t experienced any negative response from within our buildings here or around the world,” she said in a phone interview. “People are asking for campaign materials so they can show their support.”
But across the Hudson River at the Trump Plaza in Jersey City, currently the tallest apartment building in the state, Jaclyn Maltese shared the disappointment of many of her neighbors in Mr. Trump’s recent stumping. “I’m from Staten Island, so I was basically born a Republican,” Ms. Maltese, a 31-year-old accountant, said on Tuesday. “I like that he’s a self-made success story and I like that he’s a little edgy, but I am not in favor of all this insensitivity he’s been showing.”
Ebu Mbaye, a 40-year-old immigrant from Senegal, delivered the ultimate vote of no confidence, though he has lived in the building since it opened in 2008.
“I don’t tell people I live in a Trump building anymore,” he said. “I just give them the address.”
In the rarefied world of New York moguls, Rupert Murdoch never thought much of Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Trump’s divorces and marriages sold newspapers, but beyond that, Mr. Murdoch had no time for his bombastic business style and ostentatious demeanor. “Phony” was how Mr. Murdoch often described him to friends.
There was the time Mr. Trump screamed that he would sue for libel after Mr. Murdoch’s New York Post reported that the exclusive Maidstone golf club in East Hampton planned to deny Mr. Trump a membership.
Then there was the awkward aftermath of Mr. Murdoch’s own high-profile divorce from Wendi Deng Murdoch, when Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka, unlike many New York society figures, remained loyal to Ms. Deng Murdoch, a close friend.
Now, as Mr. Trump holds on to a first-place position in the polls while being roundly denounced across the political spectrum for harsh statements about Mexican immigrants and for belittling Senator John McCain’s war record, he has already lost the man who controls many of the nation’s most important media organizations.
“When is Donald Trump going to stop embarrassing his friends, let alone the whole country?” Mr. Murdoch wrote on Twitter on Saturday after Mr. Trump mocked Mr. McCain for having been captured as a pilot during the Vietnam War.
On Sunday, The Wall Street Journal, the crown jewel of Mr. Murdoch’s print company, News Corporation, published a scathing editorial calling Mr. Trump a “catastrophe.” And The Post’s front page screamed, “DON VOYAGE,” under a headline declaring, “Trump is toast.”
Mr. Trump responded by trashing The Journal on Twitter. “Look how small the pages have become,” he wrote. “Looks like a tabloid.”
Recognizing that winning over the notoriously headstrong Mr. Murdoch appears unlikely, Mr. Trump has set his sights instead on wooing perhaps the only media executive who wields as much firepower among Republicans: Roger E. Ailes, the chairman and chief executive of Fox News.
As the creator of the highest-rated cable news channel in the country (even surpassing ESPN in total viewers on some nights) and one of the most profitable assets in Mr. Murdoch’s film and television company, 21st Century Fox, Mr. Ailes has been given the freedom to operate largely outside the purview of Mr. Murdoch.
Mr. Trump and Mr. Ailes, whom Mr. Trump has called “one of the great geniuses in television history,” had a private lunch last month in New York. (A Fox News spokeswoman, Irena Briganti, said they had known each other for about 25 years and had a cordial relationship.) But Mr. Trump has not reached out to arrange a meeting with Mr. Murdoch, as a number of other Republican candidates have.
Fox News has by no means given Mr. Trump a pass for his remarks about Mr. McCain. On Monday, the host Bill O’Reilly chided Mr. Trump. “He was on a bombing mission, he was shot down, he was tortured,” Mr. O’Reilly said. “Come on, Donald, you know that the way that came off wasn’t correct!”
To which Mr. Trump replied with the closest thing yet to an apology: “Certainly if there was a misunderstanding, I would totally take that back.”
CNN and MSNBC have also devoted hours to Mr. Trump, whose histrionics have been a ratings bonanza. But his treatment by Fox News is much more crucial because of the influence the channel wields among the Republican Party’s base. And Fox News, as the host of the first primary debate on Aug. 6, has set the criterion that the debate will include the top 10 candidates as determined by national polls; Mr. Trump currently tops many polls.
Mr. Ailes, who recently renewed his multiyear contract, enjoys his editorial independence and his position as cable news contrarian. And in Fox News’s serious handling of Mr. Trump so far, longtime associates of Mr. Ailes discern a larger plan.
If the Trump balloon ultimately bursts, they suggested, it could buy time for other Republican contenders to hone their messages and become more seasoned campaigners. Either way, Mr. Ailes benefits with ratings in the meantime.
Ms. Briganti, the Fox News spokeswoman, called any implication that the channel’s coverage of Mr. Trump was a ploy to help the eventual Republican nominee “absolute nonsense, 100 percent untrue and said by someone who clearly doesn’t know Roger.”
For Mr. Murdoch, his misgivings about Mr. Trump long predate the current dust-up — though a core policy disagreement over immigration, friends say, prompted Mr. Murdoch to speak out.
Mr. Murdoch, an Australian native, has long pushed for an overhaul of the United States’ immigration system, including a path to citizenship for the 11 million people already in the country illegally.
Mr. Trump, in his presidential kickoff, warned that Mexican immigrants were bringing drugs into the country and called them “rapists” and criminals — a statement that many Republicans fear will deeply damage the party with Hispanic voters.
“Mexican immigrants, as with all immigrants, have much lower crime rates than native born,” Mr. Murdoch wrote on Twitter on July 12. “Trump wrong.”
But Mr. Trump’s remarks struck a populist chord with many conservatives, for whom opposing a path to citizenship is a key rallying point.
Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator, whose new book, “¡Adios, America!” addresses the nation’s immigration system, said, “Immigration is the new litmus test on the right.”
“Right now, it’s Trump! Trump! Trump! because he’s the only one talking about immigration,” she said in an email.
But Mr. Murdoch’s history with Mr. Trump extends well beyond immigration.
For years, the name Trump in a headline meant eyeballs and newsstand sales for Mr. Murdoch’s beloved New York Post, which broke its own record for front-page stories on a single topic in the 1990s with its coverage of Mr. Trump’s affair with Marla Maples and his split with Ivana Trump.
Mr. Trump long benefited from the publicity The Post provided him — even in headlines (“Best Sex I Ever Had,” quoting Ms. Maples) that might embarrass a private person — as he transitioned from flashy real estate developer to even flashier reality television star.
The relatively low-key Mr. Murdoch, who would prefer an ink-stained newsroom to a gold-plated Trump penthouse, was turned off by Mr. Trump’s glitziness and braggadocio, friends said.
Mr. Trump defended Mr. Murdoch during the phone hacking scandal at his British newspapers: When a select parliamentary committee declared Mr. Murdoch “unfit” to run them, Mr. Trump said, “They should be so lucky to be as unfit as him,” according to The Australian — another Murdoch paper.
Mr. Murdoch crossed paths with Mr. Trump more frequently when his now ex-wife Ms. Deng Murdoch became close friends with Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka. The Murdochs and Ms. Trump and her husband, Jared Kushner, the publisher of The New York Observer, double-dated and vacationed on Mr. Murdoch’s 184-foot yacht. The Murdochs’ 2013 divorce put an end to those excursions, though Mr. Murdoch remains friendly with Mr. Kushner.
But aside from the stray threat of a lawsuit, tensions between Mr. Trump and Mr. Murdoch did not escalate into public warfare until this year.
“Wow, I have always liked the @nypost but they have really lied when they covered me in Iowa,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter in January. “Packed house, standing O, best speech! Sad.”
Bob Kerrey served in the Senate with John McCain, is also a Vietnam veteran and has run for president, so he has been asked incessantly over recent days to appear on television and weigh in on Donald Trump’s vile besmirching of McCain’s military record.
He accepted only one of those invitations, from a friend. Otherwise he mostly stayed mum, lest he abet Trump’s ultimate goal, which is to turn his name into a news media mantra: Trump, Trump, Trump.
But on the phone on Tuesday, Kerrey’s frustration — no, let’s call it disgust — boiled over, and he, too, talked about Trump, Trump, Trump. I recount our conversation because I think Kerrey speaks for most Americans and because his comments capture what a conundrum many of us face.
If we discuss Trump, as I’ve done in several columns, we reward his bad and transcendently self-serving behavior, no matter how negative our assessments of him or how many larger truths we engage.
If we don’t discuss him, we ignore something real, in a fashion that’s irresponsible.
By something real, I mean the fact that Trump has measurable support, at least for now. In a nationwide ABC News/Washington Post poll of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents that was released Monday, he was in the lead for the party’s presidential nomination, the favorite of 24 percent of respondents. The next closest contenders were Scott Walker (13 percent) and Jeb Bush (12).
And yet.
“This is not a national primary,” Kerrey said, noting that Trump’s 24 percent has dubious predictive power for a consequential handful of individual contests in early states that aren’t exactly mirrors of America. “So who the hell cares what his numbers are nationally?”
“He’s not going to do that well in Iowa,” Kerrey continued. “There’s nothing about Trump that indicates that the evangelical community there is going to embrace him. And does anyone seriously think he has the kind of ground organization in New Hampshire to turn people out to vote?”
“He’s got no ground game,” Kerrey continued. “It’s all up in Donald’s head! Everything’s in Donald’s head. It’s the political version of ‘Being John Malkovich.’ ”
“The people running the networks know this,” he added, sighing. But they deliberately play it down as they seize almost every opportunity — including the McCain insult — to Trump anew and to Trump ad nauseam.
Kerrey groaned. “They’ve got a good sideshow going: ‘Are veterans offended?’ ‘Donald, are you going to apologize?’ For insulting McCain? He’s been insulted by better than Trump.”
Television has succumbed to the mantra more than other media, because it in particular thrives on theater, which Trump provides in excess. But those of us at newspapers and websites have definitely done our part, uncertain of the best approach.
The Huffington Post’s answer was to relegate Trump coverage to its entertainment section, explaining that he’s putting on a show, not running a serious campaign. So it was there that readers found a story about Trump’s latest attention-getting prank: During a televised rally on Tuesday, he ratcheted up his continuing feud with Senator Lindsey Graham by publicly divulging Graham’s cellphone number.
But for all Trump’s antics and nonsense, he placed second to Bush in a New Hampshire poll late last month. In a more recent Iowa poll, he trailed only Walker.
Kerrey conceded: “I don’t think you can really ignore it. But you have to evaluate, with some expertise, what his odds of being the Republican nominee are. And they’re practically zero.”
“Yeah, 5,000 people showed up at your event,” he said. “I could get 5,000 people to show up at the bearded lady. He is, in his way, a freak show.”
Kerrey thinks that Trump is principally interested in promoting his brand and padding his net worth, even if he has perhaps suffered a few short-term setbacks because of companies’ severing ties with him.
I think that Trump has an ego as ravenous as they come, with dimensions remarkable even for the political arena, and that his presidential bid is a splendiferous buffet for it. Watch it sup. See it swell. Look now: It’s a marvelous blimp.
But is his engorgement our debasement?
“It is not good for American politics,” Kerrey said.
I noted that some of his fellow Democrats were reveling in Trump, who was causing the Republican Party grief.
“I’m not putting my partisan hat on,” Kerrey said. “I’m putting my American hat on and saying: I want us to elect a great leader. And it’s going to be difficult as it is, because the money spent will be in the billions. It’s going to be hard enough to keep our balance and select a great leader even without this clown.”
The Republican Party’s internal war over the rise of Donald J. Trump is playing out among candidates and campaign operatives, but nowhere is it being heard more loudly than on commuters’ car radios.
Conservative talk radio has been abuzz with chatter about Mr. Trump since he started his presidential campaign last month with a salvo against illegal immigrants from Mexico, and the discussion is reaching a fevered pitch now that he has questioned the heroism of Senator John McCain, a veteran who was captured and tortured in Vietnam.
Despite the blowback — some would say because of it — Mr. Trump’s poll numbers have surged. The stirring of the restive Republican base on the radio airwaves provides both evidence and an explanation for his appeal.
Laura Ingraham made the case for Mr. Trump during her radio show on Tuesday, calling on Republicans to do some soul searching about why he was resonating with voters and outpacing established politicians in the polls despite his McCain comments.
“How is it that the field is so susceptible to being, at least for the moment, Trumped?” Ms. Ingraham asked, lamenting that Republicans were doing themselves a disservice by ganging up on Mr. Trump.
Callers like Dave from Indiana were unfazed by the dust-up with Mr. McCain, seeing it as more proof that Mr. Trump is ready to battle for his beliefs and ideas. “The simple fact of the matter is that he fights,” he said. “That’s why he’s worth supporting.”
As Mr. Trump campaigns on, the power of conservative talk radio should not be underestimated. It helped Republicans make big gains in midterm elections in 2010 and 2014, contributed to derailing President George W. Bush’s plans for an immigration overhaul and nearly scuttled President Obama's Affordable Care Act.
“A lot of the Republican establishment will say talk radio is the problem, that it gins up the base, that it drives the party too far to the right,” said Tim Graham, who analyzes conservative media for the Media Research Center. The group was founded by conservatives to bring balance to the news media.
“At some point,” he said, “talk radio is building the energy” for the party.
This summer the medium has amplified Mr. Trump as both a movement and an outlet for conservative outrage toward a party that has turned to moderate candidates in the last two presidential elections.
“I suspect this is a lot deeper than just a guy who is a provocateur,” Mike Gallagher, the nationally syndicated conservative radio host, said this week. “Thousands and thousands, if not more people, seem to love what Donald Trump is saying.”
Mr. Gallagher observed that Mr. Trump is channeling the frustration harbored by conservatives who feel rejected by the Republican establishment and are generally disgusted with politicians.
The disgust can cut both ways, though, and on talk radio it is starting to do just that. Peter Wehner, a guest on Mr. Gallagher’s morning show, said that Republicans should no longer be silent in their opposition to Mr. Trump. Open criticism is the only way to stem his rise and the damage he does to the party.
“He’s erratic, he’s untrustworthy, he was a Democrat for most of the last decade,” said Mr. Wehner, a senior fellow at the conservative Ethics and Public Policy Center. “No, I’m not going to vote for Hillary Clinton under any circumstances, but it doesn’t mean I’m going to vote for Donald Trump either.”
Some popular hosts who were previously supportive of Mr. Trump are turning on him. Sean Hannity, a Fox News host who also has a radio show, called Mr. Trump a shot of adrenaline to the Republican field when he joined the race, and defended his comments about immigrants. But the gambit against Mr. McCain was a step too far for Mr. Hannity, who said on Monday that smearing the senator’s time in captivity made him cringe.
“You’ve got to think broader than the base of your party if you want to win elections,” Mr. Hannity said, urging Mr. Trump to apologize.
According to Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a communications professor at the University of Pennsylvania, much of Mr. Trump’s draw lies in his bluntness, a characteristic that also draws conservative listeners to talk radio hosts. The candidate is breaking what scholars call the “spiral of silence” and is validating voters who hold views that are widely considered politically incorrect. And the fact that party elites seem to loathe him only adds to the appeal.
“There’s an attraction to someone who seems to be standing up to all the elites that you despise,” she said, explaining why some voters might find Trump’s candidacy appealing. “Sometimes it isn’t what they are standing for, it’s how they are standing.”
Evan from New York told Ms. Ingraham that Mr. Trump was gaining support because he is one of a kind: “He says things that in my lifetime I’ve never heard a politician say. We just are tired of canned speeches.”
While Ms. Ingraham praised Mr. McCain’s military service, she did not disagree with her audience.
“He’s getting hit from all sides and he’s not melting,” she said. “He’s still swinging.”
That sentiment was echoed by Rush Limbaugh, a durable symbol of conservative outrage on talk radio. Praising the billionaire businessman for not apologizing, Mr. Limbaugh urged Mr. Trump to carry on and keep standing up for himself. The left, he warned, was trying to demonize a Republican candidate for daring to speak his mind.
“Trump can survive this,” Mr. Limbaugh assured his listeners on Monday. “Trump is surviving this.”
—
The month of July once held great potential for Republican presidential candidates hoping for momentum to carry them into the first primary debates.
Instead, the summer campaign has been dominated by Donald J. Trump, who has made it almost impossible for any other candidate to garner the attention of voters and the news media.
At no point has that been clearer than on Tuesday afternoon, when Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, likely the last major candidate to join the race, announced his bid for the Republican nomination only to be overshadowed by Mr. Trump, who delivered the latest in a series of recent provocations, this time directed at one of his rivals, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina.
Mr. Kasich’s speech, heavily hyped and anticipated by some in the party’s establishment wing, was swept away. Last week, it was Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin whose weeklong kickoff was a faint memory by the weekend, when Mr. Trump belittled Senator John McCain’s war record.
Mr. Trump’s role as principal bomb thrower, initially an annoyance for his Republican rivals, is now presenting them with their first real challenge in the primary campaign as they seek to develop a strategy for dealing with the bombastic real estate mogul who stands at the top of recent polls.
Some of the candidates have bluntly criticized Mr. Trump, which could endear them to donors who find his language destructive and help them break into the news cycle. Former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who is not certain to make the cut for next month’s initial debate, based on an average of national polls, counts among them.
In a speech in Washington on Wednesday, Mr. Perry opened a full-scale assault on Mr. Trump, calling him a “cancer” on conservatism whose politics reflect a “toxic mix of demagoguery, meanspiritedness and nonsense.”
“Resentment is the poison we swallow that we hope harms another,” Mr. Perry said. “My fellow Republicans, don’t take the poison.”
For his part, Mr. Graham released an online video Wednesday in which he destroyed his cellphone in a number of imaginative ways, a rejoinder to Mr. Trump publicly revealing his cellphone number on Tuesday.
Other candidates have resorted to different tactics to remind voters that they are running. Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky lit the United States tax code on fire and released a video of it.
And Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, who is also known for his bluster, appears restrained when compared with a man who, on stage, relishes exacting revenge on his critics.
Mr. Trump’s wrath tends to be directed toward those who take the hardest swing at him. But some of the candidates have done the work over the last two years to stay in the developer’s good graces.
Among the top-tier candidates, Mr. Trump is said to like Mr. Walker, who last year sent the mogul a thank-you note for supporting his re-election effort. Mr. Trump had that note framed, and it was on display among an array of souvenirs from sports figures like Shaquille O’Neal in his Trump Tower office in May. Mr. Walker never criticized Mr. Trump for his remarks on immigration.
Rick Santorum, recognizing Mr. Trump’s megaphone after his 2011 flirtation with a presidential campaign of his own, is said to have met with him. Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Mr. Christie have described Mr. Trump as a “friend.” Mr. Paul played a round of golf with him last year.
But the fear remains in some of the campaigns that Mr. Trump will target their candidates in the lead up to the debate — or at the event itself.
Many national Republican officials are increasingly resigned to Mr. Trump’s looming presence. At a meeting of the Republican Governors Association this week in Aspen, Colo., donors and operatives mused about how to prevent him from hijacking the debate.
One idea that came up was to urge three leading candidates — Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor; Mr. Walker; and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida — to band together and state that they would not participate in any debate in which Mr. Trump was present, using his refusal to rule out a third-party bid as a pretext for taking such a hard line. The thinking, according to a Republican involved in the conversations, was that the lesser-funded prospects who have been eclipsed by Mr. Trump would follow suit, and the TV networks airing the debates would be forced to bar Mr. Trump in order to have a full complement of candidates.
But none of the campaigns have shown any appetite for such solidarity, for reasons ranging from their strategic interests and not wanting to make Mr. Trump a martyr, to fear of making an enemy of Fox News, the preferred cable network of conservatives and the host of the first debate.
And officials at the Republican National Committee, which condemned Mr. Trump’s comments about Mr. McCain over the weekend, do not believe Fox would consider dropping Mr. Trump, regardless of any potential statement from them or any of the campaigns.
All this has led the candidates and party leaders to take a this-too-shall-pass approach, hoping that the media-fueled Trump boomlet will fade like most summer flings as Republicans begin to take a longer look at their options later this year.
But until then, many Republicans worry that the attention paid to Mr. Trump will cost the party an opportunity to deliver a pointed critique of President Obama’s policies and contrast themselves with Hillary Rodham Clinton, the front-runner for the Democratic nomination.
“The two people most excited about Donald Trump’s candidacy are Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton,” Mr. Graham’s campaign manager, Christian Ferry, said in a statement. “Because of Trump’s bombastic and ridiculous campaign, we aren’t talking about Obama’s horrible deal with Iran or Hillary Clinton’s plans to continue Obama’s failed national security agenda.”
Instead, Republicans are bracing for months of internecine warfare that could distract from the party’s message and harm an eventual nominee.
“These candidates are now willing to say just about anything about each other,” said Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster who elicited Mr. Trump’s comments about Mr. McCain at an Iowa forum last weekend.
The combination of freewheeling spending in the era of “super PACs” and the limitless expressions of derision could present an explosive combination in the 2016 race, Mr. Luntz said, adding: “Get ready for the worst mudslinging in modern American politics.”
Such complaints seems unlikely to deter Mr. Trump in the weeks ahead of the debate.
From their seats on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Marco Rubio and Rand Paul tried to score points for their presidential bids on Thursday by blasting Secretary of State John Kerry over the Iran nuclear deal. In New Hampshire, Jeb Bush and Gov. John R. Kasich fielded questions from voters at town hall-style meetings. Carly Fiorina hit four events over 10 hours in Iowa, while Gov. Scott Walker and Mike Huckabee spoke to conservative state lawmakers in California.
As plain, plodding and predictable as all of this work can be, it is essential to building a successful campaign for the White House: You make a name for yourself with your policy ideas and leadership style, you convert voters into supporters and volunteers, and you grow and become a better candidate through trial and error. That is the game plan that these Republicans are pursuing against the surprise hit of the 2016 race, the Donald Trump Show, which continued its ratings-rich debut season with a new episode on Thursday: a visit to the United States border with Mexico, where Mr. Trump continued his crusade against illegal immigration.
Only former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is aggressively confronting Mr. Trump, calling him a “cancer on conservatism” for his divisive comments about Mexican immigrants, Senator John McCain and other high-profile targets that draw media coverage. Mr. Perry has been campaigning full time for months, especially in Iowa, but has little to show for it in opinion polls and fund-raising. Mr. Trump is registering far more support in Iowa, and neither man sees a downside in picking fights — with Mr. Trump even choosing Mr. Perry’s home state to highlight failings at the border. (Senator Lindsey Graham, a close friend of Mr. McCain’s and also a low performer in polls, has also skirmished with Mr. Trump, but to mostly comic effect.)
For all of Mr. Trump’s rivals, working hard at traditional political events runs the high risk that they will come across as, well, traditional politicians — the very sort he and many of his admirers are rebelling against in the race for the presidential nomination. 
Mr. Rubio, for instance, challenged Mr. Kerry over Israel’s security if the Iran deal is enacted, and indicated he would end the agreement as president — but Mr. Kerry pushed back forcefully, a lively exchange that nevertheless lacked the headline-generating theatricality of Mr. Trump. And in the short term, typical campaign events may not be enough to increase the poll numbers of some Republicans so that they qualify for the first televised debate on Aug. 6.
But those other candidates and their strategists say that they have little alternative right now to their current course. Lacking Mr. Trump’s attention-generating celebrity, wealth and chutzpah, they say they cannot beat him at his own game. Their best shot, they say, is in patiently and painstakingly organizing voters, raising money, preparing for debates and qualifying for all the primary ballots in the coming months to achieve what it takes to win the nomination.
“Donald Trump can go down to the border — he can go to the moon — and it won’t dissuade Governor Kasich from focusing on his message to voters,” said John Weaver, a senior adviser to Mr. Kasich, who on Tuesday became the 16th Republican to formally enter the race.
Stuart Stevens, another veteran party strategist, who is advising the presidential campaign of Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, recalled that at one point in 2011, Mr. Trump — who was not a candidate then — was ahead in the polls of a previous client, Mitt Romney, who went on to win the Republican nomination.
Experienced candidates like Mr. Romney, and most of those running now, do not get rattled by untested candidates with high poll numbers at early stages of a race, Mr. Stevens said — and battle-tested political operatives do not lose sight of crucial building blocks like assembling field organizations in crucial states.
“Winning the nomination isn’t about winning every news cycle against a Trump,” Mr. Stevens said. “It’s about winning 30,000 votes in Iowa and 50,000 votes in New Hampshire.”
Mr. Trump’s headline-generating criticism of Mr. McCain and his verbal battles with Mr. Perry and Mr. Graham drew the briefest of comments this week from another Republican rival, Ben Carson. In an interview, Mr. Carson said he believed voters would ultimately reward substantive ideas over sound-bite attacks.
“I want to talk about improving health care, I want to talk about being proactive on national security, I want to talk about creating an environment that encourages entrepreneurial investment,” said Mr. Carson, who is one of the leading candidates in Iowa opinion polls.
If Mr. Trump is testing the discipline of other Republicans at sticking to their messages, he is also positioning himself to be a Ross Perot-like spoiler in the general election if the Republican Party goes too far in signaling its concerns about him. In an interview with The Hill published on Thursday, Mr. Trump said that many of his supporters wanted him to mount a third-party run if he did not win the Republican nomination, and added that he might do so if the Republican National Committee toyed with him.
“I’ll have to see how I’m being treated by the Republicans,” Mr. Trump said. 
Should Mr. Trump run as an independent, some of his Republican opponents believe he would siphon enough votes from the party’s nominee to hand the 2016 election to the Democratic candidate. Discrediting Mr. Trump now, therefore, is an imperative to hobbling him as a Republican or independent candidate, according to several Republicans who are close to Mr. Perry and Mr. Graham.
Mr. Perry’s strategy now involves attacking Mr. Trump on multiple fronts, including his past donations to Democrats (among them Hillary Rodham Clinton), with the hope of getting a bounce in the polls and making the cut for the Aug. 6 debate. Only the top 10 candidates in polls will be in the debate; Mr. Perry is on the bubble.
For Mr. Rubio, the strategy on Thursday was to come across as commanding on the Iran nuclear deal, and he did so at the start of his exchange with Mr. Kerry.
But Mr. Kerry, the Democratic nominee in 2004, found his own opportunities to dress down Mr. Rubio. “Senator, I listened to a long list of your objections here about it, but there’s no alternative that you or anybody else has proposed,” Mr. Kerry said.
“I sure have, Secretary Kerry,” Mr. Rubio interjected.
“I’m confident that the next president of the United States will have enough common sense that if this is being applied properly, if it’s being implemented fully, they’re not going to just arbitrarily end it,” Mr. Kerry said of the deal. He added a moment later, perhaps imagining a President Rubio (or a President Trump) ripping up the deal, “If you think the ayatollah is going to come back and negotiate again with an American, that’s fantasy.”
Still, Mr. Rubio got in his points. Though his language may not have been as florid as Mr. Trump’s, it was another day of a Republican contender grinding out the politicking on his own terms.
LAREDO, Tex. — It was supposed to be the canvas on which Donald J. Trump painted his campaign, this arid stretch of pavement and patches of dirt where Mexico and the United States meet, now mobbed by more than 60 reporters. It was here that he would secure the border, build his impenetrable wall and “stop the illegals.”
But as he stammered through a 10-minute news conference on Thursday next to the World Trade Bridge, claiming a “great relationship with Hispanics,” about needing a wall only “in sections,” and a mysterious “great danger with illegals,” the scene became the distillation of the current state of the Trump campaign: a freewheeling romp that changes on the fly, at times chaotic and bizarre, that drags with it the glare from seemingly endless cameras.
He spent just a few hours on the ground in Laredo, including 40 minutes touring the border with Mayor Pete Saenz and City Manager Jesus Olivares. His final event, a meeting with local officials, ended abruptly after questions from the audience grew hostile. He was mobbed everywhere he went.
In a trip meant to enhance his credentials on immigration and help him put policy points behind his strident remarks, Mr. Trump said virtually nothing about exactly what he planned to do to fix the nation’s immigration system.
“The one thing you have to do, and as Jesus was saying and the mayor was saying, there was a huge problem with the illegals coming through,” he said. “You have to make the people that come in, they have to be legal.”
When asked how, he stammered. “You have to let people do their job, the border patrols,” Mr. Trump said, later adding, “In certain sections you have to have a wall.” Exactly what sections, or how that job was not being done, was not immediately clear.
The caustic language that has been Mr. Trump’s hallmark was largely absent on Thursday. He reserved his most disparaging comments for Rick Perry, the former governor and a rival for the Republican presidential nomination, saying he “did a terrible job as governor of Texas” and that he “doesn’t understand” border security. The much anticipated trip hit its first bump Thursday morning when the local border patrol union that had invited Mr. Trump rescinded its offer, saying “an endorsement was never discussed for any presidential candidate.” Officials in Laredo then stepped in to help show Mr. Trump around.
He received a police escort as dozens of officers guided his S.U.V.s and chartered buses packed with members of the news media through downtown. Traffic was blocked and traffic lights were skipped, but the occasional protester was still able to get in view of the caravan. 
Mr. Trump was at times gracious, thanking the border patrol and others for attending, and at times angry, telling one questioner, “No, no, no, you’re finished,” before ending his remarks after just three minutes.
And, as has  often been the case throughout the campaign, he and those around him saw things a little differently.
As he deplaned onto the sweltering tarmac from his private jet emblazoned with his name, protesters and supporters swarmed the fence outside, chanting and screaming in Spanish and English. Mr. Trump, about 100 yards away, waved back.
“We just landed, and there were a lot of people at the airport, and they were all waving American flags and they were all in favor of Trump and what I’m doing,” Mr. Trump said later, after his tour of the border.
When told there were protesters outside, Mr. Trump brushed it aside: “Oh, I didn’t see them.”
When told that crime along the border was on a downward trend, and asked what evidence he had seen of the danger, he repeated, “We’ll be showing you the evidence.”
And when Mr. Olivares said at the news conference that he and city officials did not think a wall was “necessary at this time,” Mr. Trump somehow found agreement.
“There are different sections, this is one section,” he said. “By the way, the wall will save you a tremendous amount of money. But absolutely, there are areas where you have to have the wall.”
The campaign stop at the Mexican border marked a summit of sorts of Mr. Trump’s climb to the top of the Republican pack, fueled largely by harsh outbursts against illegal immigration, most notably his remark during his presidential announcement speech that Mexico was sending the United States its “rapists” and other criminals. 
Mr. Trump has said that he is the only candidate capable of achieving effective border security. He visited five families this month in Southern California who had loved ones who were, as his campaign stated, “victims of illegal immigrants.” His efforts touched a nerve among some.
“I felt happy for the first time,” Jamiel Shaw Sr., one of the grieving family members Mr. Trump visited in Los Angeles, told Fox News this month, in reference to Mr. Trump’s infamous announcement speech. “When that happened, I felt good. I felt hope.”
Not all shared that feeling, however. Eva Bermudez, a local resident, felt compelled to protest Mr. Trump’s arrival Thursday, saying his remarks about Mexican immigrants were “dead wrong.” Victor Rendon of Laredo, a veteran of Operation Desert Storm in 1991, was angry that his town had “rolled out the red carpet” for Mr. Trump.
But Mr. Trump said he was still loved by Hispanics, despite his comments. And for those who do not love him, well, he feels he can change their minds.
“I’ll bring the jobs back,” he promised, speaking at the border. “And you know, the Hispanics are going to get those jobs, and they’re going to love Trump.”
Then he added, “And they already do.”
The adults patrolling the playpen of Republican politics are appalled that we’ve become a society where it’s O.K. to make fun of veterans, to call anyone who isn’t rich a loser, to cast an entire group of newly arrived strivers as rapists and shiftless criminals.
Somewhere, we crossed a line — from our mothers’ modesty to strutting braggadocio, from dutiful decorum to smashing all the china in the room, from respecting a base set of facts to a trumpeting of willful ignorance.
Yes, how did we get to a point where up to one-fourth of the party of Lincoln, Eisenhower and Reagan now aligns itself with Donald Trump? Those same political marshals would have us believe he’s a “demagogue,” a “jackass,” a “cancer.”
They say he’s trashing the Republic brand. They say he’s “stirring up the crazies,” in the words of Senator John McCain. But Trump is the brand, to a sizable degree. And the crazies have long flourished in the Republican media wing, where any amount of gaseous buffoonery goes unchallenged.
And now that the party can’t control him, Trump threatens to destroy its chances if he doesn’t get his way, running as an independent with unlimited wealth — a political suicide bomb.
Trump is a byproduct of all the toxic elements Republicans have thrown into their brew over the last decade or so — from birtherism to race-based hatred of immigrants, from nihilists who shut down government to elected officials who shout “You lie!” at their commander in chief.
It was fine when all this crossing-of-the-line was directed at President Obama or other Democrats. But now that the ugliness is intramural, Trump has forced party leaders to decry something they have not only tolerated, but encouraged.
Consider Trump’s swipe against McCain’s military service, and by extension all veterans who have been involved in the fog of combat. Republicans were apoplectic at Trump’s claim that McCain was no war hero.
“All of our veterans, particularly P.O.W.s, deserve our respect and admiration,” said Jeb Bush. The Republican National Committee was quick to lay down a similar principle, saying, “There is no place in our country for comments that disparage those who have served honorably.”
No place except a presidential campaign, that being the 2004 attempt to destroy the honorable Vietnam service of candidate John Kerry. Where was Bush’s “respect and admiration” when his brother was benefiting from a multimillion-dollar smear of a Navy veteran with a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart?
The wise men predicted Trump’s demise after he demeaned a former prisoner of war. But polls posted late this week showed Trump still in the lead. How can he get away with bashing combat veterans? Simple: The party he now wants to represent wrote the playbook on it.
The racism toward Mexicans that Trump has stirred up has been swooshing around the basement of the Republican Party for some time. Representative Steve King of Iowa did Trump one better in 2013 when he said undocumented immigrants had “calves the size of cantaloupes because they’re hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert.”
Did this make King a pariah? Not judging by the number of presidential candidates who showed up at his Iowa Freedom Summit in January, there to curry his favor. Among them was Rick Perry, the former Texas governor. This week Perry called Trumpism “a toxic mix of demagogy, meanspiritedness and nonsense that will lead the Republican Party to perdition if followed.”
Using the X-ray vision of his new glasses, Perry has correctly diagnosed the problem, and forecast the outcome. But that toxic mix has been just the tonic for his party for years, including Perry’s suggestion that Texas might have to secede. President Obama was barely into his first months in office when Representative Joe Wilson of South Carolina shouted “You lie!” at him in a joint session of Congress. For hurling that insult, Wilson was widely praised in conservative media circles.
Trump also stoked the humiliating lie about President Obama’s citizenship. He began that crusade, he claimed, because so many Republicans still believe it, and have encouraged him to keep it alive.
Now, the only way to trump Trump is to act like a fool in public. So Senator Rand Paul, formerly seen raising good questions about national issues, fired up a chain saw and took it to the tax code a few days ago — a pathetic stunt. And there was Senator Lindsey Graham, flummoxed by Trump’s exposing him as sycophant to a plutocrat, destroying his cellphone in a blender. It only made us long for the real thing: Dan Aykroyd’s Bass-O-Matic.
All of this overshadowed the entry into the race of Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a sensible conservative who could beat Hillary Clinton. But he won’t get any traction until Republicans destroy Donald Trump and the vulgar, nativist element in their party that they nurtured — until it became a monster.
As journalists agonize over how to handle Donald Trump’s candidacy — searching for the signs of inevitable collapse after every new controversy — it’s worth recalling the case of another outsider who briefly led the primary polls: Herman Cain.
Mr. Cain jumped to the top of the polls in 2011 almost as abruptly as Mr. Trump. He won a Republican straw poll in Florida that year and found himself at the top of the polls two weeks later. He held even more support than Mr. Trump holds today.
Until that point, Mr. Cain, a former pizza executive, hadn’t received much attention. Journalists had assessed, understandably, that he had little chance of winning the nomination. His competitors didn’t see him as a serious threat. So journalists directed most of their energy elsewhere.
But once Mr. Cain reached the top of the polls, journalists and rival campaigns took a different approach. His 9-9-9 tax plan was questioned in the debate and by the news media. Then Politico reported that two women had accused Mr. Cain of sexual harassment.
These developments took a toll on Mr. Cain’s support. By the end of November, he had lost half of his support from early October, falling from the upper 20s to the lower teens. His fate was clear.
Was it reasonable for journalists to ignore Mr. Cain in August or September? Journalists make initial determinations about which candidates deserve the most attention on the basis of their perceived likelihood of being a serious player in the race.
But continuing to withhold scrutiny of Mr. Cain on the assumption that his decline was inevitable would have been to abandon the role that the press often plays with unserious candidates, those who have never held elective office or otherwise lack the background to be realistic long-term candidates for the White House. These candidates, without a stronger foundation for their support in the polls, can succumb to the most basic tests that serious candidates face routinely and usually endure.
In retrospect, we know that Mr. Cain was on a path to defeat — he withdrew about a month after the sexual harassment allegations were revealed. But if you were looking for signs of a quick collapse in the polls in early November 2011, you wouldn’t have found them.
The ABC/Washington Post poll conducted after the sexual harassment article found that:
Similarly, three days later, an NBC/WSJ poll found that:
So there isn’t much reason to believe that Mr. Trump will find himself at 5 percent in the polls tomorrow, or even next week. What’s more significant is that the process of scrutiny, from both the press and his opponents, is now underway.
Journalists may beat themselves up over covering a candidacy like Mr. Trump’s. But their willingness to do so is ultimately a crucial part of the vetting process that makes up a national campaign.
Up, up and away.
Since June 16, when Donald J. Trump announced his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination, his name has appeared in headlines of major newspapers an average of 22 times a day, according to the database Nexis, nearly three times as often as Jeb Bush, one of the perceived favorites.
And behind each of those stories about Mr. Trump lies an ocean of angst within many news organizations over whether and how to cover him.
Is he a reality-television star turned political distraction? A vital part of a robust democracy? A bellwether for profound shifts in the electorate? A uniquely coifed satire? Mr. Trump, said Cameron Barr, the national editor for The Washington Post, “doesn’t lend himself to easy formulas.”
The calculation is complicated by the fact that Mr. Trump, who has flirted often with presidential politics, has gone further this year than ever before. Besides formally declaring his candidacy, he has filed the necessary financial disclosure forms, removing reasons that the news media could have used not to report on him as a serious candidate. His personal wealth and strong showing in early polls have also been factors.
And so reporters and editors must now weigh whether each moment of Trumpian bravura — such as reading the cellphone number of another candidate, Senator Lindsey Graham, out loud at a campaign rally — is worthy of a story.
They most often decide yes. According to data Google provided to the website FiveThirtyEight.com, from mid-June to mid-July, Mr. Trump was in 46 percent of the news media coverage of the Republican field, based on Google News hits. More than 60 percent of Google searches about Republican candidates were directed at Mr. Trump. Mr. Bush came a distant second in both categories, with 13 percent and 9 percent.
For Ryan Grim, the Washington bureau chief of The Huffington Post, that coverage threatens to mislead readers “that this person is a serious candidate and might be the Republican nominee for president.”
This month, Mr. Grim helped write a note saying that his site would cover Mr. Trump in its entertainment section, not as a political figure. Mr. Trump’s campaign is focused on publicity, Mr. Grim said, not on the work required to build an infrastructure to gather and turn out votes needed to actually win.
That will not change for The Huffington Post, Mr. Grim said, even if Mr. Trump were to win a primary or two.
Rupert Murdoch, who owns The Wall Street Journal and The New York Post, seems to agree. He took to Twitter last week to denounce Mr. Trump. His newspapers have since adopted a similarly skeptical tone on Mr. Trump’s candidacy. However, Fox News, which is also owned by Mr. Murdoch, has been more receptive to Mr. Trump, as have the other 24-hour cable news channels. (A spokeswoman for The Journal declined to comment on its coverage of Mr. Trump.)
The Washington Post, Mr. Barr said, takes a different view. “We have to take seriously anyone who polls as seriously as he does among Republicans,” he said.
The newspaper has covered the daily news that arises from Mr. Trump’s appearances and has reported critically on some of his claims, including interviews with immigrant workers at one of Mr. Trump’s properties after he said in his presidential announcement speech that drug dealers and “rapists” were crossing into the United States from Mexico.
“We don’t predict the outcome of elections,” Mr. Barr said. “We want to serve the readers and the electorate as best we can.”
Other outlets fall in between. Susan Glasser, the editor of Politico, said that Mr. Trump was part of a “long-established tradition of the blunt-spoken, even outrageous politician who enters the presidential campaign as a way of hijacking the stage for his agenda.”
“This isn’t such an outlier in our politics,” Ms. Glasser said, adding of Politico, “Our mission is to cover politics in as many ways as possible, so we have less of an existential question around this.”
The New York Times, said Matthew Purdy, a deputy executive editor, has covered Mr. Trump through the years and was initially “hesitant to take too seriously his latest role as presidential contender.”
But in such a large Republican field, Mr. Trump has grabbed attention and excited a portion of the voters, Mr. Purdy said. “At least for the moment, Trump has gone from summer sideshow to news, and we cover news,” he said.
Katherine Miller, the political editor at BuzzFeed, said Mr. Trump was “capturing the sentiments of a real bloc of people who want to hear someone say the Republican establishment and Washington, D.C., can go to hell, and actually mean it.” Also, she added, “it’s politics: Weird things happen all the time.”
Mr. Trump has long been a prominent name in New York real estate and first became a tabloid fixture in the 1980s. Kurt Andersen, a founder of Spy magazine, now defunct, has followed his career for decades and said Mr. Trump had remained largely unchanged.
“He has one setting, which is: ‘I’m going to tell you how great I am, and if you call me a jerk, I’m going to call you a jerk,’ ” Mr. Andersen said.
Mr. Trump’s appetite for attention from the news media, Mr. Andersen said, seems undiminished. He is particularly adept at “playing the press, and having them to various degrees and at various moments rise to the bait.” His moving beyond talk and actually taking the steps to run for president, Mr. Andersen said, “is like movies going 3D.”
For Mr. Barr, Mr. Trump’s appeal lies in the fact that “he doesn’t seem to comport himself with many or even any of the filters that most politicians apply in their presentation of self.”
“I think in that way, he is an attractive figure for people to write about, for reporters to cover,” Mr. Barr said. “He is a deviation from the establishment political persona that we are all so used to trying to get behind.”
Ms. Glasser added, “There’s an element of, this man knows how to put on a reality show, and are we watching the reality show version of the candidate?”
For his part, Mr. Trump continues to campaign and to give the news media plenty of material. Given his outsize persona, and the intense interest it engenders, it seems fitting that the outlet that has, perhaps, best captured the news media’s feelings surrounding his quest for the White House is a satirical website, The Onion.
“Admit It,” reads the site’s fake commentary by Mr. Trump. “You People Want to See How Far This Goes, Don’t You?”
TURNBERRY, Scotland — In the United States, Donald Trump is known as a tycoon, as an outspoken television personality and, now, as a presidential candidate. In Scotland, however, Trump is renowned primarily for his impact on the country’s golf scene — although here, too, he is a figure of contention.
Trump’s interest in the sport’s homeland will fall under scrutiny this week as the Women’s British Open is held at his most recent purchase, Turnberry — or Trump Turnberry as it is now labeled on every resort courtesy car, uniform lapel, item of merchandise and flat surface.
The event is a landmark for Trump, 69, who boasts an impressive portfolio of golf courses, mostly in the United States, but who has struggled to gain a foothold in Scottish golf’s links landscape.
His plans to build, from scratch, a world-class course and resort in Aberdeenshire have been hampered by legal challenges. And he has prominent opponents, including a former first minister of Scotland, Alex Salmond. But in Turnberry, which he bought in April 2014, Trump owns a four-time host of the men’s British Open.
The initial plans for Trump’s Aberdeenshire resort — near Balmedie, on the northeast coast of Scotland — called for the destruction of 4,000-year-old coastal sand dunes, leading to protests from local residents. An action group with the name Tripping Up Trump was even formed to prevent the construction of the 1-billion-pound (then about $2 billion) project, opposition that led to the documentary “You’ve Been Trumped.”
Ultimately, Trump got his way, with ministers voting in 2008 in favor of the course’s construction, deeming the economic benefits to outweigh the environmental cost. His victory was not entirely sweet, though: The Scottish government approved plans for an offshore wind farm just a mile or two from the coast of his Aberdeenshire course.
Thus began Trump’s running battle with Salmond, the most powerful Scottish parliamentary figure of his generation, who resigned his office in December. Appearing in front of a parliamentary committee, Trump labeled the wind turbines “one of the most serious problems Scotland will have or has had.” When asked to present evidence of his assertion, he replied, “I am the evidence.”
Trump recently blamed Salmond personally for the proposals, saying last month, “I have not spoken to Alex Salmond in years, but I think it is a terrible thing he has done to Scotland.”
In something of a sulk, Trump has vowed to halt any further development of his resort at Balmedie should the wind farm be built — and at present, it appears that it will. The purchase of Turnberry, already a world-renowned resort, for £35 million (then $59 million) suggests that Trump has effectively given up on his ambition of turning the Aberdeenshire course, which opened in 2012, into a destination of similar standard.
Trump has pledged around $250 million in investment toward his Turnberry resort, and with gold fixtures, marble floors and shimmering glass now adorning the recently renovated clubhouse, it is easy to see how $10 million of that money has already been spent.
Most locals seem hesitant to comment on Trump’s character, as if torn between wanting to voice their derision and express begrudging gratitude for the investment he has plowed into the region.
“We try to ignore what he says in the media,” one man said. Another golfer — a tourist from Connecticut — quipped, “He’s better at owning golf courses than is he at being a politician.”
One barman at a nearby pub explained that “golf people” saw Trump in a different way, adding that “we’d rather it was someone else’s name” attached to the resort but that “he’s put a lot of money in.”
Professional players have found themselves in a similar predicament.
When Rickie Fowler was recently pressed for his opinion on Trump — and more specifically Trump’s comments on the “great danger” of Mexican immigration to the United States — he was wary not to cross one of European golf’s biggest investors.
“It’s not exactly my spot to comment in a way,” Fowler, who won the Scottish Open in Gullane this month, said. “We go and play the best tournaments in the world, wherever they may be.”
Until Trump’s controversial comments, his course at Balmedie was rumored to be under consideration to host the Scottish Open in the future. Such speculation has now abated, given that the tournament is backed by the Scottish Parliament — of which Trump is a longtime critic.
In addition, in the wake of Trump’s remarks, the P.G.A. of America pulled a tournament, the Grand Slam of Golf, from Trump National Golf Club near Los Angeles — the P.G.A. of America called it a mutual decision in a statement — and the L.P.G.A. distanced itself from Trump. Trump himself wrote to the British Women’s Open organizers, daring them to find a new venue for the competition if they had such objections.
Regardless, a successful staging of the British Women’s Open this week would increase Turnberry’s chances of being awarded the men’s British Open at some point after 2018, the last year for which a course has been chosen already. (The R&A controls the rotation for that tournament.)
Trump — a man who once invited the Scottish news media to his private hangar at Glasgow Prestwick Airport, holding a news conference in front of his sparkling jet and helicopter — knows how to put on a spectacle, and preparations for the Women’s British Open hint at a truly big-time event.
Whether the man himself will attend is a matter of local speculation.
“After all the noise he’s made, he has to be here,” one golfer said in front of the clubhouse that bears Trump’s name. “This will be a win for him — for a change.”
It has been more than a week since Donald Trump’s remarks about whether Senator John McCain should be considered a war hero, and many journalists and commentators have reached a conclusion: Mr. Trump has emerged unscathed.
Their view is supported by a wave of polls out this week in the presidential race, often showing Mr. Trump surging into the mid-20s nationally. The case was bolstered on Sunday, when NBC/Marist polls showed Mr. Trump taking the lead in New Hampshire and closing in on Scott Walker in Iowa.
It’s entirely possible that Mr. Trump’s poll numbers won’t take a beating in the short run. But this week’s polls may be fooling a lot of people. Most of the polls were partly or entirely conducted before Mr. Trump’s controversial comments.
Here’s what the polls look like to most people: They perceive them as they come out. From this point of view, the Trump surge continued well into the week, with poll after poll showing him doing better and better, days or even a full week after his remarks.
But polls shouldn’t be interpreted based on the date they’re released. What really matters is when the poll was conducted. Polls, after all, are a measure of public opinion at the time of the interviews, not at the time they’re released to the public days later.
This chart presents a different picture, plotting the polls by the date surveys began, not when we learned the result.
The biggest difference here is the amount of data after the McCain comments. There are just two national polls conducted entirely after Mr. Trump’s remarks. Many of the big state polls, which are not on this chart, have the same problem. The NBC/Marist polls released on Sunday, for instance, were in the field from July 14-21, starting well before Mr. Trump’s comments.
For good measure, it is not at all clear that we should expect Mr. Trump to suffer discernible losses in the near future. Take Herman Cain, who faced reports that he was accused of sexual harassment in late October 2011. These reports were surely more problematic for his candidacy than Mr. Trump’s comments about Mr. McCain, and yet the early polls conducted after the allegations did not show much evidence that they had any effect on his standing. One month later, Mr. Cain was out of the race.
If sexual harassment allegations didn’t immediately bring Mr. Cain down, there’s not much reason to think Mr. Trump’s ratings should crash either. It will take time for the effects of the scrutiny brought by Mr. Trump’s comments to take their toll. Maybe even a long time. What’s important is that the process of scrutiny, from party leaders and journalists, is now underway.
ADDIS ABABA, Ethiopia — President Obama on Monday lashed out at Republican presidential candidates for making what he called “ridiculous” claims about his policies and “outrageous attacks” that crossed the line of political decorum.
At a news conference while visiting this African country, Mr. Obama defended the international nuclear agreement he and other world leaders reached with Iran and he bristled at the assertion by former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas that the president’s policy would “take the Israelis and march them to the door of the oven.”
Mr. Obama said such comments demonstrated a lack of seriousness on the part of those seeking to succeed him and reflected an anything-goes political culture that rewards incendiary speech over sober deliberation. Asked specifically about Mr. Huckabee’s remarks, Mr. Obama linked them to those of other Republican presidential candidates, including Donald J. Trump and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.
“The particular comments of Mr. Huckabee are just part of a general pattern we’ve seen that would be considered ridiculous if it weren’t so sad,” Mr. Obama said. “We’ve had a sitting senator call John Kerry Pontius Pilate. We’ve had a sitting senator, who also happens to be running for president, suggest that I’m the leading state sponsor of terrorism. These are leaders in the Republican Party.”
Senator Tom Cotton, a Republican from Arkansas and a leading critic of the Iran agreement, last week said that Mr. Kerry, the secretary of state who negotiated it, “acted like Pontius Pilate” by letting the International Atomic Energy Agency negotiate separate inspection provisions with Iran to verify the agreement. “He washed his hands” and “kicked it to the I.A.E.A.,” Mr. Cotton said.
Mr. Cruz objected to the agreement’s provision lifting sanctions in exchange for limits on Iran’s nuclear program because that would free up $100 billion or more of frozen Iranian assets. As a result, he said, “the Obama administration will become the leading financier of terrorism against America in the world.”
Mr. Huckabee’s remarks even drew criticism from Jeb Bush, a rival Republican candidate. “The use of that kind of language is just wrong,” Mr. Bush told reporters after a town hall-style meeting in Orlando, Fla. “This is not the way we’re going to win elections and that’s not how we’re going to solve problems.”
Shortly after the Mr. Obama made his criticism in Ethiopia, Mr. Huckabee fired back at the president.
“What’s ‘ridiculous and sad’ is that President Obama does not take Iran’s repeated threats seriously,” he said in a written statement. “For decades, Iranian leaders have pledged to ‘destroy,’ ‘annihilate,’ and ‘wipe Israel off the map’ with a ‘big Holocaust.’ ‘Never again’ will be the policy of my administration and I will stand with our ally Israel to prevent the terrorists in Tehran from achieving their own stated goal of another Holocaust.”
At his news conference, Mr. Obama went beyond Mr. Huckabee and the others to raise Mr. Trump, mentioning him several times by name without being asked just a week after cutting off a reporter who tried to ask about the businessman at a White House news conference on Iran. “Maybe this is just an effort to push Mr. Trump out of the headlines,” the president said of the Republicans’ remarks.
Mr. Obama went on to note Mr. Trump’s assertion that Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and a former prisoner of war in North Vietnam, was not a genuine war hero. Mr. Obama, who defeated Mr. McCain in the 2008 presidential campaign, said it was offensive to “challenge the heroism of Mr. McCain, somebody who endured torture and conducted himself with exemplary patriotism.”
But the president also made it a broader indictment of the Republican Party, many of whose leaders denounced Mr. Trump’s remarks as well. “The Republican Party is shocked, and yet that arises out of a culture where those kinds of outrageous attacks have become far too commonplace and get circulated nonstop through the Internet and talk radio and news outlets,” Mr. Obama said. “And I recognize that when outrageous statements are made about me, a lot of the same people who were outraged when it’s made about Mr. McCain were pretty quiet.”
Mr. Obama said candidates should not “play fast and loose” with comments like that. “The American people deserve better,” he said. “Certainly presidential debates deserve better. In 18 months, I’m turning over the keys. I want to make sure I’m turning over the keys to somebody who’s serious about the serious problems the country faces and the world faces.”
Mr. Obama’s critique of Mr. Huckabee was echoed by Hillary Rodham Clinton, who, in a campaign stop in Iowa, called the statement “steps over the line and it should be repudiated by every person of good faith and concern about the necessity to keep our political dialogue on the facts and within suitable boundaries.”
This article was initially published as a letter to subscribers of The Upshot’s weekly newsletter. You can sign up for the email here to get this and all of the best of The Upshot.
Dear Upshot readers,
We in the news media are in the midst of a self-hating binge of Donald Trump coverage. “Stop Covering Donald Trump,” proclaimed a paradoxical recent headline in Mother Jones. A Washington Post headline argued, “Why Is Trump Surging? Blame the Media.” The Christian Science Monitor simply asked, “Has Media Lost Its Collective Mind?”
The Huffington Post has moved coverage of the campaign to its entertainment section, from its politics sections. Rupert Murdoch has urged his deputies at Fox News to pay less attention to the Trump campaign — apparently without success, according to Gabe Sherman of New York Magazine.
It’s certainly true that the Trump campaign resembles a circus. I grew up in New York in the 1980s, so it’s a circus I’ve been watching for three decades now — the bombast, the insults, the marriages, the business successes and the business failures. Yes, his presidential campaign is an attention-grabbing lark that has little connection to the country’s most serious issues and that is doomed to join the list of Trump failures. And yet I think the political media is unnecessarily tortured about its role in the Trump show. Ultimately, the media is likely to play a valuable role.
Let’s start by acknowledging that political reporters didn’t create Donald Trump. He was a celebrity long before he announced his presidential campaign — a bigger celebrity than any other Republican candidate. He starred in his own television show for more than a decade, has his name on buildings and has been appearing on the cover of People magazine since at least 1990. It wasn’t within the power of the political media simply to get together and devise a conspiracy to ignore him. It probably wouldn’t have been appropriate, anyway.
For better or worse, many Americans are fascinated by him. Google searches on his name have not simply spiked in the aftermath of media coverage of the Trump campaign, as both John Dickerson of CBS News and Nate Silver of FiveThirtyEight have noted. Sometimes, the public’s interest has preceded the media’s interest. Mr. Trump’s position atop the polls is causing the media coverage more than the reverse.
Obviously, some of the coverage of the Trump campaign — including much of the cable television coverage — is frivolous, and this attention is most likely inflating his poll numbers. But media coverage doesn’t have the potential only to help candidates. It can also hurt them. The long history of presidential campaigns by candidates like Mr. Trump — those who have never before held elective office and who, on paper, are not qualified for the presidency — suggests that media coverage will ultimately damage him.
If you haven’t yet read my colleague Nate Cohn’s piece on this subject, I encourage you to do so. Nate retells the story of the 2012 campaign of Herman Cain, another bombastic businessman who surged to the top of the Republican polls. Then came the media scrutiny of Mr. Cain’s checkered past — and Republican voters soon decided that they didn’t want him to be their nominee, after all. Candidates like Mr. Cain and Mr. Trump, “without a stronger foundation for their support in the polls,” Nate wrote, “can succumb to the most basic tests that serious candidates face routinely and usually endure.”
American democracy is hardly perfect, nor is media coverage. But the news media does play a valuable democratic role in vetting presidential candidates over the long campaign, and the Trump story will almost certainly become part of that history. It’s happening already.
Just a few days after Nate wrote his piece, The Daily Beast uncovered a deposition in which Ivana Trump, the candidate’s ex-wife, said he had violently assaulted her. In response to questions about the incident, a lawyer for Mr. Trump threatened a Daily Beast reporter, saying he would ruin the reporter’s life. “You put Mr. Trump’s name there onto it, rest assured, you will suffer the consequences,” the lawyer, Michael Cohen, said. The vetting is underway.
Donald J. Trump seemed irritated. He had been grilled for two hours in a lawsuit over a failed Florida real estate project, and he told the lawyer that her questions were “very stupid.”
When the lawyer, Elizabeth Beck, asked for a medical break, Mr. Trump and his lawyers objected, demanding that the deposition continue. Ms. Beck said it was urgent — she needed to pump breast milk for her 3-month-old daughter, and she took the pump out to make her point.
Mr. Trump erupted.
“You’re disgusting,” he told Ms. Beck, in a remark that is not disputed by either side. He then walked out of the room, ending the testimony for the day.
In his unorthodox campaign for the Republican nomination for president, Mr. Trump has portrayed himself as a teller of difficult truths, whose wealth unburdens him from the careful pronouncements of ordinary candidates. “Politicians,” he has said, “are all talk.”
Hundreds of pages of sworn testimony by Mr. Trump over the past decade show something less flattering. Some of his claims, made under oath, and under pressure, are shown to be hyperbolic overstatements, and others to be shadings of the truth or even outright misstatements. And in rare instances, he turns boorish and demeaning.
The testimony, drawn from a series of lawsuits since 2007, reveals much about the personal preoccupations and business tactics of the developer-turned-candidate.
It showcases Mr. Trump’s fixation with his image as a financial success, and lays bare his hypersensitivity to any suggestion of failure. It chronicles his methodical cultivation — and elbows-out defense — of a brand name he has licensed around the world for millions of dollars in fees; and it at times displays a lack of sympathy for ordinary consumers who have lost money on the purchase of Trump-branded products.
In the Beck deposition, he said that home buyers who had forfeited their down payments in a building bearing his name were “very lucky” that the project failed because, he asserted, they would have lost more had the project proceeded after the financial crisis of 2008.
“Congratulate your clients,” Mr. Trump told Ms. Beck and her husband and co-counsel, Jared Beck, whose clients had alleged that they lost tens of thousands of dollars each.
A lawyer for Mr. Trump, Alan Garten, said the depositions showed that “Mr. Trump, unlike the other candidates (all of whom are career politicians), is a determined businessman who stands up for what he believes, speaks his mind and talks from the heart.”
Above all, the testimony suggests that Mr. Trump’s relationship with the truth can be tenuous — especially when it involves claims about his business.
“Have you ever exaggerated in statements about your properties?” one lawyer asked him.
“I think everyone does,” Mr. Trump replied.
“Does that mean that sometimes you’ll inflate the value of your properties in your statements?” the lawyer tried a moment later.
“Not beyond reason,” he answered.
Case by case, lawyers deposing Mr. Trump examined his public statements.
Was he the developer of Trump-branded condominium towers in Tampa and Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and in Mexico, as marketing materials led some buyers to believe? Nope. (“I’m a builder in New York,” he said. “Generally, when I venture outside of New York, I do a form of a license.”)
Was he really paid $1 million for a 2005 speech, as he had boasted on television? He was not. (It was $400,000; in testimony, he said he counted efforts to promote the talk as a form of payment.)
Did his debts ever reach $9 billion in the 1990s, as he said in two of his books to dramatize his eventual financial comeback? They did not. (“That is a mistake,” Mr. Trump said, “and I don’t know how it got there.”)
But, he said, it hardly mattered. “Frankly, whether it’s $9 billion or $3.6 billion,” Mr. Trump said, “I don’t think makes any difference to anybody if they hear the story.”
In words that echo now that he is a candidate, Mr. Trump compared his own inclination toward blurring the facts to a strategy he learned from America’s elected officials.
“I’m no different from a politician running for office,” he said. “You always want to put the best foot forward.”
The lawsuits for which Mr. Trump was deposed stemmed largely from real estate deals that went bust. In two of the cases, Mr. Trump was accused of misleading home buyers about his role as a developer of condominium towers in Florida when he was in fact licensing his name to the projects.
In a third case, he was the accuser, leveling claims of defamation against Timothy O’Brien, a reporter for The New York Times at the time who asserted in a book that Mr. Trump’s net worth was far less than he had publicly claimed. (Mr. Trump settled with plaintiffs in one condo case; he won the other. He failed to prove his case against Mr. O’Brien.)
For Mr. Trump, a man accustomed to luxurious private planes and a solicitous staff, the dozens of hours of tedious testimony represented a humbling and, at times, aggravating concession to the American legal system.
His temper sometimes flared. Under questioning by Ms. Beck in 2011 in the Florida real estate case, he was insulting. “Do you even know what you’re doing?” he challenged her.
But when Ms. Beck insisted on pausing for an hour to pump breast milk, Mr. Trump, in the words of her husband, had “a meltdown” during a break in the deposition. In a letter at the time, Mr. Beck said Mr. Trump had called his wife “uptight” as well as “disgusting.”
Mr. Garten, the Trump lawyer, did not dispute Mr. Beck’s account of Mr. Trump’s language, but said it “was in no way a statement about her decision to breast-feed or pump.”
“It was solely the fact that she was appearing to do it in the middle of a deposition,” he said — although no one involved suggested that she had gone beyond displaying the pump.
Mr. Garten added: “In my 20 years of legal practice, I’ve never seen more bizarre behavior at a deposition. That is what led to his remark.”
Mr. Garten said that “every accommodation” had been made for Ms. Beck to take breaks, but that he believed she was seeking to buy time to come up with new questions for Mr. Trump. The Becks lost one of their cases against Mr. Trump and are appealing.
The depositions also expose other intriguing details about the habits and preferences of a man whose public persona can have a one-dimensional quality.
Alcohol? He does not touch it, Mr. Trump testified.
Television? “I don’t have a lot of time,” he said, “for listening to television.”
Text messages? Not for him.
For a candidate who says he is an authority on modern business, Mr. Trump is slow to adopt technology. In 2007, he said he had no home or office computer.
“Does your secretary send emails on your behalf?” he was asked.
His secretary generally typed letters, Mr. Trump said. “I don’t do the email thing.”
By 2013, Mr. Trump was still not sold on email. “Very rarely, but I use it,” he said under questioning.
Perhaps the most striking revelations surround Mr. Trump’s fluid evaluations of his own financial portfolio, which he declared in a deposition can fluctuate based on his “feelings.”
“Yes, even my own feelings,” Mr. Trump testified, “as to where the world is, where the world is going, and that can change rapidly from day to day.”
In the deposition for the defamation lawsuit, lawyers for Mr. O’Brien asked Mr. Trump to explain the role his feelings played in valuing a parcel of land in Westchester County, N.Y. He had stated it was worth $80 million one year and then $150 million the next.
“Was it your view of the value of the property that changed from 2005 to 2006?” he was asked.
“Yeah, that the value of the property has gone up substantially,” Mr. Trump said.
“Did you have any appraisal done?” he was asked a moment later.
“I don’t believe so, no.”
“Did you have any basis for that view other than your own opinion?” a lawyer followed up.
“I don’t believe so, no,” he said.
That unconventional approach may raise questions about Mr. Trump’s public claim this month that he is worth $10 billion.
Pressed repeatedly in depositions about optimistic financial figures, Mr. Trump sounded, even years ago, like a man who was weighing a campaign for elected office.
“I didn’t confirm or deny,” Mr. Trump joked at one point, “as a politician would say.”
But not just any politician, the depositions suggest. In 2013, when a lawyer asked Mr. Trump how he chose his business partners, Mr. Trump made clear the level of office he had in the back of his mind.
“You get references and opinions of people, and you go on that,” Mr. Trump said. “That’s true with the president of the United States.”
The lawyer questioning Mr. Trump seemed perplexed. “Did we have references for the president of the United States?”
Before Mr. Trump could answer, his lawyer jumped in. “Objection.”
The most pressing question that Donald J. Trump could face next week in the first debate of the 2016 presidential race may not be about Iran or immigration, but this: Can he deploy enough adjectives (“huge!”), superlatives (“the worst!”) and invectives (“loser!”) for him to use up his time without being challenged successfully on the substance of policy?
Mr. Trump could come away a winner if he makes cogent points without sounding too hostile, presenting himself as more of a serious-minded, anti-establishment voice in a primary crowded with career Republican politicians. But there are risks for him if he turns the debate stage in Cleveland into another episode of the reality show his campaign has sometimes resembled.
He boasts about spending no time preparing for the event, which will be broadcast on Fox News on Aug. 6, even as his aides have put together briefing papers for him on policy and pungent lines of attack. He already knows plenty about the issues, he says, so much that, rather than cramming, he will be in Scotland over the weekend at a golf tournament on one of his courses.
And after weeks of slashing at his opponents in interviews, he refuses to say whom he may single out when the 10 leading primary contenders stand side by side. “I have great respect for some of the candidates,” Mr. Trump said in an interview. “I don’t have great respect for others.”
He cannot know who will try to embarrass him. Then again, he suggested, he may just choose targets of opportunity. “It depends on the feel,” he said. “It depends on what’s taking place.”
No candidate is more likely to wing it than the mercurial Mr. Trump. But the man who read Senator Lindsey Graham’s cellphone number aloud on a South Carolina stage has set the bar fairly high for himself to do something that would qualify as outrageous.
He is likely to arrive in Cleveland ready with cutting “observations” about each of his rivals, according to a person briefed on Mr. Trump’s debate preparations who was not authorized to speak publicly. (A recent example: He said former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas “put glasses on so people will think he’s smart.” He added, “It just doesn’t work.”)
Mr. Trump’s mantra, in his books and in his paid speeches, is to counterattack harder when anyone throws a punch. (As he did when gently chastised by Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin. “Wisconsin is a mess,” Mr. Trump retorted.)
He could also single out just one of his rivals, especially a formidable one, for ridicule and provocation. (Jeb Bush, he said not long ago, is “an unhappy person.”)
In a 90-minute debate with 10 candidates, Mr. Trump’s speaking time is unlikely to reach 10 minutes, even with rebuttals, leaving little time for him to delve into policy details. But he could be pressed to do more than trash the Iran nuclear deal or the Obama administration’s foreign policy in broad terms, or claim he has a secret plan to defeat the Islamic State, as he has done so far.
“He’s gotten away with just blustery criticisms and sweeping generalizations until now,” Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist who advised Mitt Romney in 2012, said in an email. “It will be interesting to see if the Fox moderators, who are trusted validators among Republican primary voters, force him to provide more specifics on important policy issues.”
“He can’t just complain about the media to a Republican audience when it’s Bret Baier asking the question,” he said, referring to a Fox News anchor.
There have already been glimpses of less-than-sure-footedness from Mr. Trump on the campaign trail. On a trip last week to Laredo, Tex., to visit the border with Mexico, he had difficulty summoning details when pressed on how he would fix the immigration system.
“We have to have legal immigration, legal immigration,” he said repeatedly. “We want to get legal immigration in. We want legal immigration.”
He seemed relieved when a reporter changed the subject for him, asking about Mr. Perry — and allowing him to return to the offensive.
Mr. Trump betrays no anxiety about his command of the issues. In fact, he maintains that his rivals are afraid of him. So much so that, he claimed, some of them, he declined to say which, have privately asked him to go easy on them in the debate.
It is possible, of course, that Mr. Trump could choose to disarm his opponents not by finding new ways to humiliate them but by being statesmanlike and courteous.
“If we live in a world where he is a serious candidate and intends to prove that he’s a serious candidate, then it is a real opportunity,” said Stuart Stevens, another former Romney adviser. “I think for Donald Trump, a boring debate would probably help.”
Brett O’Donnell, who is coaching Mr. Graham on debate skills, ventured that if Mr. Trump insulted his rivals incessantly or indiscriminately, he could alienate viewers. If he refrains, Mr. O’Donnell added, “I think he helps himself if he comes off as a serious candidate who is viewed by folks as competent enough to be president of the United States.”
But others think there is little chance that the format will allow for such a thing.
“The debate moderators will pride themselves on throwing one candidate against another,” said Alex Castellanos, a veteran Republican strategist. “A fistfight is unavoidable,” he added.
Unlike on “The Apprentice,” though, Mr. Trump’s rivals will not be under orders to take his abuse stoically. One of them could, conceivably, hit back even harder.
“The most memorable debates are defined by moments of strength or moments of weakness,” Mr. Madden said. “One of the other candidates has to be the one to make that moment of weakness happen for Trump. It’s like the big-talking bully who goes around the neighborhood popping off about how he’s the toughest kid on the block. Kick his tail fair and square in front of everyone, and you own the neighborhood.”
Perhaps mindful that the night could prove something other than an unbridled success, Mr. Trump has repeatedly said he has never debated before and denigrated the whole enterprise: Debates, he said in the interview, are “really irrelevant to running the country and making the country great again.”
What is clear is that his goals for the debate are not what other candidates’ goals are.
He needs only to earn praise from the supporters who have driven him to the top of the Republican primary polls — and not to disappoint them.
And he brims with confidence that he will succeed at that, whether other people admit it or not.
“No matter how well I do,” he said, “everyone will say I lost.”
Donald Trump’s show-stealing arrival at the Women’s British Open on Thursday in Turnberry, Scotland, upstaged another strong start to a major by Hyo Joo Kim.
Kim was midway through compiling a seven-under-par 65 in the first round when Trump, a Republican candidate for president of the United States, landed in a private helicopter to begin a two-day visit at the tournament at his Turnberry resort.
The on-course action was initially a sideshow for Trump, who invited the news media to his hotel near the course to continue his presidential campaign. He eventually watched some golf, although the leaderboard was virtually locked in by then.
Kim, who shot a first-round 61 in winning the Evian Championship in her major championship debut last year, has a one-stroke over Lydia Ko of New Zealand and Cristie Kerr of the United States.
Ko, whose 66 was her lowest score in a major, is attempting to become the youngest winner of a major. She will be 18 years 3 months 9 days old on Sunday, seven months younger than Morgan Pressel was when she won the Kraft Nabisco Championship in 2007.
Top-ranked Inbee Park began her quest to win her first Women’s British Open by shooting a 69 in what she described as “perfect conditions for golf,” with three of her five birdies coming in her last five holes.
The defending champion, Mo Martin, shot a 70, and Michelle Wie, wearing a brace on her left ankle because of a bone spur, shot a 76.
GOOSEN LEADS IN VIRGINIA The South African Retief Goosen charged into a tie for the first-round lead at the Quicken Loans National at Robert Trent Jones Golf Club in Gainesville, Virginia. 
Goosen, 46, piled up eight birdies in hot, humid conditions for an eight-under-par 63. He finished even with Ryo Ishikawa of Japan, who reeled off five consecutive birdies on his front nine before recording a hole in one on the par-3 fourth after the turn.
Ernie Els of South Africa and the Americans Justin Leonard and Kevin Chappell shot 64, while Tiger Woods recovered from a poor start to open with a 68 after play was suspended for 97 minutes because of the threat of lightning. (REUTERS)
Jeb Bush is spending hours in sessions from Florida to Maine preparing policy answers for Thursday’s first Republican debate — but he is also being mindful to avert any display of disdain for the man he will stand beside, Donald J. Trump, who has infuriated Mr. Bush by criticizing Mexican immigrants. (Mr. Bush is married to one.)
Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin is crafting one-minute answers and 30-second rebuttals in case Mr. Trump or others continue attacking him as a flip-flopper on Common Core education standards and as a weak jobs creator, testing lines in mock debates with advisers playing Mr. Trump and other candidates.
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Ben Carson are determined not to let the debate on Fox News become about Mr. Trump, practicing to steer the conversation to national security, entitlement reform and health care — which might implicitly plant doubts about Mr. Trump’s knowledge on those issues.
These intensive preparations, described by advisers and friends of the top candidates, reflect the preoccupation that many Republican candidates have with Mr. Trump, whose taste for lacerating his rivals with provocative language has made him the most unpredictable force on a presidential debate stage in years. Mr. Trump has risen quickly to the top of several polls, challenging or erasing the long-held leads of Mr. Walker in Iowa and Mr. Bush in New Hampshire, and he enters the debates with far greater name recognition and personal wealth to draw on than the other candidates, who cannot afford to leave the debate in a diminished state.
“No one knows how much the moderators are going to ask us about Donald Trump, let alone what Trump is going to say, so the preparations are warped by the Trump factor,” Mr. Carson said in an interview. “What most of us will be looking for is any opportunity to turn the conversation into something meaningful, rather than about one man.”
Most of the Republicans are wary of taking on Mr. Trump because he seems impenetrable, yet they also do not want to look weak in the face of his attacks. The best they can hope for is that Mr. Trump will attack their biggest perceived opponent; one ally of Mr. Cruz, who is running hard in Iowa, said he would like nothing more than for Mr. Trump to continue criticizing the Wisconsin record of Mr. Walker in hopes of weakening him in Iowa.
“You only attack the king if you can kill him; otherwise you leave him alone, because the king will kill you,” said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster. “So the candidates better have something good ready if they come after Trump. Or they might try to find a way, in their responses, to remind Trump of something that another candidate said that really bothered him.”
Stagecraft is critical, especially for Mr. Bush and Mr. Walker, since they are expected to be standing on either side of Mr. Trump and often in the same camera shot. Advisers say they are confident that Mr. Bush and Mr. Walker will not scowl or stiffen in reaction to anything Mr. Trump says, but rather will seek opportunities to look and sound more presidential than he does — and like the strongest opponent to Hillary Rodham Clinton, should she become the Democratic nominee.
With an unusually large lineup of 10 candidates expected onstage, there will be less time to speak than usual; most campaigns assume that each candidate will get eight to 10 minutes to answer questions and make rebuttals. Every minute spent talking about Mr. Trump is a minute they will lose to sell themselves to skeptical voters. (The participants will be announced sometime after polling analysis is completed on Tuesday evening; the Fox News hosts Bret Baier, Megyn Kelly and Chris Wallace will be asking the questions.)
But there may be an exception to the strategy of minimizing Mr. Trump as a focal point, advisers say. Should he say something highly inflammatory — for example, about Mexicans again — candidates may look timid if they fail to call him out.
Rick Perry, the former governor of Texas, may have the most at stake — if he qualifies for the debate, an uncertain prospect given that Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio could edge him out for a spot based on the polling. Mr. Perry has described Mr. Trump as a “cancer on conservatism,” even challenging him to a pull-up contest, and knows he needs to stand up to Mr. Trump on the debate stage as well.
“Anyone who will offer a criticism of Trump elsewhere but is afraid to do it to his face will do themselves great damage,” said Steve Schmidt, a Republican strategist, recalling the damage that Tim Pawlenty, a former governor of Minnesota, did to himself in 2011 after declining to repeat his criticisms of Mitt Romney’s health care policies to Mr. Romney’s face in a debate.
Mr. Trump, in an interview, laughed when asked if he was preparing for Thursday’s debate. While he said that his years of television work, “The Apprentice” on NBC, gave him great comfort in front of the camera, he also contended that he had an advantage over most of his rivals: He would be speaking his mind at the debate rather than trying to recall prepared answers or angling for ways to score points against a rival.
“I am who I am, and I think that will be good enough,” he said. “You know, I may have far more money than anyone, but I see the people who go out and spend money on pollsters, and they can’t make a comment until they test it. I don’t have a pollster, and I’m not going to have a full-time pollster. If pollsters are so good, why is Hillary doing so badly in the polls?”
Actually, Mrs. Clinton leads other Democratic candidates, but she has far weaker numbers, as does Mr. Trump, when it comes to overall favorability, honesty and trustworthiness.
Most of Mr. Bush’s practice sessions have involved sitting around tables with advisers and focusing on policy rather than standing at a fake podium and coming up with zingers aimed at Mr. Trump. People close to Mr. Bush expect him to be attacked for his positions on the Common Core standards and his support for a pathway to legal status for illegal immigrants. Whether the attacks come from Mr. Trump or anyone else, Mr. Bush intends to coolly deliver a ready response, highlighting what he sees as his consistency on these issues in an implicit jab at rivals like Mr. Rubio, who backed away from an immigration overhaul plan he once supported in the Senate.
Given that polls are being used to decide who is invited to the early debates, uncomfortable or gaffe-filled performances carry more danger than in past races.
“First and foremost, a candidate has to have confidence in their message and their ability to deliver that message, because viewers will see that — or they’ll see when you don’t have that,” said Stuart Stevens, a Republican strategist whose firm is advising Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey.
Among the leading Republicans, Mr. Walker has gone to some of the most elaborate lengths to prepare over the past month, having advisers standing at podiums and playing Mr. Trump and everyone else who could be on the debate stage. Advisers say Mr. Walker is ready to respond to questions or rivals’ attacks against him as insufficiently conservative on illegal immigrants (he once favored a path to citizenship for them) and abortion (he ran a re-election ad last year saying he supported legislation that would leave the decision to a woman and her doctor.)
An unexpected challenge for the candidates: finding a convincing stand-in for Mr. Trump who can authentically channel his bravado and testiness (not to mention his hair, advisers said). 
Yet preparation is only one part of a successful debate strategy. Mr. Schmidt noted that the most devastating lines from past debates were the result of listening closely and waiting for the right moment to attack — like Ronald Reagan’s “there you go again” comment to Jimmy Carter in 1980 and Lloyd Bentsen’s “you’re no Jack Kennedy” riposte to Dan Quayle.
“The best thing is for candidates to be ready to strike at opportunistic moments as soon as they hear them,” Mr. Schmidt said. “There are very few instances where candidates score points by striking first; it’s more often the counterpunch. If Trump starts brawling at Jeb, Jeb has to listen for the best way to hit him back, and hit him hard.”
WASHINGTON — It may be the Summer of Trump, but the publicity-hungry real estate magnate is not the only Republican presidential candidate relishing all his attention.
Donald J. Trump’s surge in the polls has been met with barely concealed delight by Jeb Bush and his supporters. Mr. Trump’s bombastic ways have simultaneously made it all but impossible for those vying to be the alternative to Mr. Bush to emerge, and easier for Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor, to position himself as the serious and thoughtful alternative to a candidate who has upended the early nominating process.
With little indication that his support is slipping and the promise of the center stage at Thursday’s debate, Mr. Trump has essentially frozen the rest of the field.
“The longer it goes, the greater the panic is going to build,” said Alex Castellanos, a longtime Republican strategist. “And that means you may not have the luxury to flirt with an undeveloped, budding candidate. Trump has set the Republican Party on fire, and if you’re going to put that fire out you don’t have time to waste. You’re going to have to grab the biggest blanket you got and throw it, and right now that’s Jeb.”
Many Republican officials, while acknowledging that Mr. Trump has tapped into the current of anti-establishment anger, believe he has little chance to ultimately win the nomination. The broad attention given to his position atop national polls overshadows more worrisome indicators for him, including the substantial number of potential primary voters who say they would not support him under any circumstances.
But for the moment he is depriving many of the other 16 Republican candidates of the political oxygen they need to win attention from grass-roots supporters in early nominating states and commitments from fence-riding donors.
That mainly helps Mr. Bush, who can quietly continue to build his daunting advantages in money and organization while his would-be challengers struggle to break through.
The frustration among those other aspirants is beginning to spill into public.
“I think this is a temporary loss of sanity,” Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky said on CNN Thursday of Mr. Trump’s support, adding: “If you would give some other candidates time from 8 in the morning to 8 at night all day long for three weeks, I’m guessing some other candidates might rise as well.”
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey could barely contain his exasperation when asked about Mr. Trump’s claim that he would not only build a wall on the Mexican border but would even have Mexico pay for it.
“When you do that, it hurts the credibility of the presidency,” Mr. Christie said on CNBC.
A Monmouth University poll of New Hampshire voters released last week emphasized the problem for them: With Mr. Trump in the race, Mr. Christie drew 4 percent and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin 7 percent. But the same poll showed that, if Mr. Trump were to drop out, Mr. Christie would pick up 15 percent of Trump voters, and Mr. Walker 14 percent. 
In Iowa, a crucial state for Mr. Walker, Mr. Trump is now statistically tied with him, according to an NBC Marist poll of potential Republican caucusgoers.
Mr. Bush’s enthusiasts, meanwhile, are all but giddy, even though it would be much better if he were simply dominating the field.
“You got to give Trump credit,” Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said with a grin. “He’s really created a firestorm here. Because he is such a controversial character, and an interesting one at that, it’s taken away opportunities for an awful lot of others to break through.” At the same time, Mr. Hatch said, Mr. Bush “comes across as the one guy you can rely on.”
Mr. Bush has been openly critical of Mr. Trump and “the vitriol that he’s spewing out these days,” while being increasingly emphatic about the need for Republicans to embrace a more optimistic and inclusive message. It is a theme aimed not just at the general electorate, but also at Republican primary voters eager to back a candidate who can generate broad appeal and win the White House.
“We have to campaign all across this country with joy in our heart rather than anger,” Mr. Bush said in suburban Orlando last week, vowing to a heavily white crowd that he would campaign in minority communities and on college campuses — “places where Republicans haven’t been seen in a long, long while.”
Mr. Bush’s campaign is aggressively highlighting these efforts. He began last week speaking before a diverse group of pastors in Orlando, which has a fast-growing Hispanic population, and sitting for an interview with Jose Diaz-Balart of MSNBC.
And he ended it with an address to the National Urban League Conference and an interview with Lester Holt of NBC.
Privately, Mr. Bush’s top strategists, who have become increasingly fixated on halting Mr. Walker, believe that Mr. Trump is nothing short of a godsend. That is because Mr. Trump is drawing support from voters — blue-collar, less-educated, more conservative — who are unlikely ever to support Mr. Bush but are essential to Mr. Walker’s candidacy.
What complicates matters for Mr. Walker, and any of the other Republicans vying for that restive conservative base, is that they will have difficulty matching the bluster or promises of Mr. Trump because he does not operate within the conventional boundaries of political discourse.
“Trump is much more willing to be provocative,” said David Winston, a Republican pollster. “He’ll say something outrageous, and then where do they go? And that’s the challenge.”
The extent to which the other candidates feel they need to compete with Mr. Trump for that pool of voters may become clear in Thursday’s debate. If candidates like Mr. Walker, Mr. Christie, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas directly engage with Mr. Trump, it is an indication of the urgency they feel to cut into his support.
But it is unclear what exactly can be done to tarnish Mr. Trump with voters who are drawn to him. His incendiary comments and his personal history have done little to diminish his appeal.
“It’ll be death by 100 cuts, and he’s probably only in his 20s,” conceded Chris LaCivita, an adviser to Mr. Paul and a veteran operative, adding that Mr. Bush’s team is “laughing their way through the summer.”
Even those skeptical about Mr. Trump now say they believe he will remain a factor in the race into this fall, at least through the second debate in mid-September. Many party strategists anticipate he will ultimately self-destruct if exposed as having little familiarity with the pressing issues facing the country.
If there is good news about Mr. Trump’s rise for those looking for a shot at Mr. Bush, it is that the first votes will not be cast for six months.
“If you’re another candidate, the good thing is that it’s early,” said Robert Gleason, chairman of the Pennsylvania Republican Party, adding of Mr. Trump: “He’s put the block on everything, just stopped everything dead.”
As five of the 2016 Republican presidential candidates descended on an exclusive donor conference hosted by the oil-billionaire brothers Charles G. and David H. Koch, Donald J. Trump had a message for his rivals.
“I wish good luck to all of the Republican candidates that traveled to California to beg for money etc. from the Koch Brothers,” Mr. Trump, who leads in many national polls, wrote in a Sunday morning Twitter post. “Puppets?”
The answer to his question, of course, is a matter of perspective.
The candidates who made the pilgrimage to Dana Point, Calif., this weekend to address the gathering of wealthy donors were either pandering to the brothers at one of their twice-yearly seminars (beg-a-thons, in Trump parlance) or simply hoping to woo an influential network of Republicans who could help finance their campaigns through what is shaping up to be a grueling nominating process.
Rich donors have emerged as more crucial than ever this election cycle, with the Supreme Court’s Citizens United decision allowing a tsunami of big money into politics, especially through “super PACs” — political organizations that are outside the campaigns but often act as de facto extensions of them.
A New York Times analysis found that fewer than 400 families had contributed nearly half the money raised in the 2016 presidential campaign so far, with roughly 130 families and their businesses providing more than half the money that Republican candidates and their super PACs had raised through June.
And so, as Mr. Trump assailed his rivals for behaving like “puppets” of the Koch brothers, many of the leading Republican candidates — including former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida; Senator Ted Cruz of Texas; Senator Marco Rubio of Florida; and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin — found themselves trying to walk the fine line between courting the brothers’ vast wealth and not coming across as their marionettes.
(Mr. Trump, who is heavily financing his own campaign, was not invited to the conference, where the coveted speaking slots were assigned by members of the Koch network. And a political data company set up by the Koch brothers has reportedly declined to do business with Mr. Trump’s campaign.) 
On Saturday, Carly Fiorina, the former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, and Mr. Walker addressed the gathering of about 450 people in back-to-back question-and-answer sessions, praising the Koch network and dismissing concerns about the outside money flooding into presidential politics. They were not shy about flattering the donors, some of whom are already financing their campaigns or super PACs. Mike Allen of Politico moderated all of the sessions. 
“These are people who care deeply about our nation, and who are willing to put their time and their energy and their resources and their minds to the challenge of making a better nation,” Ms. Fiorina said, referring to the Koch network. 
She added that the news media seemed to worry about the influx of outside money on the Republican side, but not similar donations from liberal hedge-fund billionaires like George Soros, a philanthropist, and Tom Steyer, an environmentalist.
“It’s one thing for Democrats to complain about corporations getting engaged in politics, and yet they never have a problem with unions getting engaged in politics,” Ms. Fiorina said. “We have a right — everyone has a right — to speech in this country. And as we all know, any kind of speech costs money in this country.”
Mr. Walker was similarly laudatory, saying he wished “the whole world could see what goes on here.”
“So many of you here aren’t here because of any interest on behalf of your personal finances or your industries, you’re here because you love America,” Mr. Walker said, before likening those in the Koch network to the everyday Americans he had met at Tea Party rallies across the country. Those people, he said, “may not have a lot of net worth, but they’re out fighting Obamacare, they’re fighting for their country.”
“I think David and Charles have kind of harnessed that frustration,” Mr. Walker added, “and said, ‘Instead of just being angry about it, let’s do something about it.’ ” On Sunday, Mr. Rubio was asked if he thought the nonprofit 501(c) (4) organization supporting his campaign should have to disclose its donors — a question he largely skirted, but one that seemed relevant to the crowd, as the Koch network takes steps to avoid disclosing many of its donors.
“I just ask every group out there to comply with the law,” Mr. Rubio said. “Ultimately, people have a First Amendment right to participate in the American political process, and as I’ve said before, as long as newspapers and television stations keep charging people to speak out on politics, we’re going to have to keep raising money.”
Of the six invited candidates, only Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky skipped the gathering, instead spending the weekend meeting with voters in Iowa and Illinois. “Packed house in Niles, Illinois!” Mr. Paul said on Twitter over the weekend. “Let’s turn Illinois from blue to red in 2016!”
In the final session of the conference, Mr. Allen dubbed Mr. Bush “the $120 million man” — a reference to how much his campaign and super PAC have raised so far — before asking how much money is too much. 
“I don’t know, but I think you might as well front-load if you can,” Mr. Bush said, to laughter. 
Turning more serious, he added that he was “running hard” and that money would help that effort. “I’m playing by the rules of the game, the way it was laid out, and if people don’t like it, that’s just tough luck,” Mr. Bush concluded, as the crowd erupted in applause. 
Jeb Bush stumbled through a familiar question about his brother and father, struggling for the right words as he cracked a joke about duking it out with anyone who questioned the legacy of his aging dad.
Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey awkwardly said aloud what many have been wondering about his candidacy: “Am I washed up?”
And Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina reached back to the 1990s to attack Hillary Rodham Clinton’s credibility by dredging up her husband’s dishonesty about a sexual affair.
Mischievously promising to translate “Clinton-speak” for the audience, Mr. Graham explained, “When Bill says, ‘I didn’t have sex with that woman,’ he did.” 
After weeks of preparing for a smash-mouth debate with Donald J. Trump, 14 Republican candidates found themselves instead Trump-less but sandwiched into a constricting format on Monday night, delivering strikingly uneven performances just days before the first big test of the presidential primary contest.
Rather than making the other contenders look more presidential, however, the event, at St. Anselm College in Manchester, N.H., seemed to shrink the candidates. Assembled in the front row, the Republicans gawked as each rival took his or her turn on stage, looking at times as if they were being forced to sit through a tedious school assembly.
In Mr. Trump’s absence — he skipped the event, saying it was not worth his time — the candidates filled two hours with credentials and boasts that he could not match. They touted their experience balancing big state budgets (Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio), their military service (Mr. Graham) and their middle-class roots (Carly Fiorina.)
“I started out as a secretary in a little nine-person real estate firm,” said Ms. Fiorina, who ended her career in business as chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, a billion-dollar computer company.
Still, Mr. Trump’s influence could be discerned. The moderator, Jack Heath, a New Hampshire radio host, repeatedly pressed the candidates on immigration, the issue that Mr. Trump has ridden to the top of the polls. And it seemed clear they felt compelled to take as hard a line as they could to leave as little room as possible between their positions and his.
Rick Perry, the former governor of Texas, said he had looked President Obama in the eye and warned, “Mr. President, if you don’t secure the border, Texas will.” He listed the security measures he favored for stemming the flow of illegal immigrants, from air patrols of the border 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to a stronger fence in certain places.
The forum, sponsored by The Union Leader newspaper, seemed to lack the drama and anticipation surrounding Thursday night’s Republican debate in Cleveland. Candidates were not permitted to interact with each other directly; instead, they each took two turns at the microphone, fielding rapid-fire questions from the moderator, before being given 30 seconds for closing statements.
Some were not even in New Hampshire. Three of the senators who participated — Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida — did so from a studio in Washington, where they stayed so they could vote for stripping Planned Parenthood of its federal funding. (The vote failed in a Democratic-led filibuster.)
The unusual format and repeated interruptions by timekeepers led to several painfully awkward moments. 
Former Gov. George Pataki of New York was mid-sentence — “By the way, Jack” — when the moderator cut him off. He reacted with surprise, stood up and walked off. At another point, a woman suddenly emerged from stage right with a folder in hand, beckoning Mr. Perry to leave. He sheepishly did so.
C-Span cameras caught candidates waiting their turn, forlornly watching their rivals onstage, sometimes in unflattering ways. Mr. Christie at one point sat with his head down, looking positively bored, as he listened to Mr. Walker. As Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, gave his closing statement, Ms. Fiorina was caught gabbing with Mr. Graham.
There were moments of levity. The moderator asked Mr. Perry to name agencies he would cut from the federal government, the same question that tripped him up, disastrously, during a Republican presidential debate in 2012. 
“I’ve heard this question before,” Mr. Perry deadpanned, to laughs. 
There were revealing moments, too. Mr. Heath asked Mr. Christie if his best shot at the White House had been in 2012. Mr. Christie gamely replied, “Jack, you saying I’m washed up?” He added that, back then, "I was not ready."
The Republicans largely spared each other attack, favoring Mrs. Clinton as their primary target. Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana deployed backhanded praise for a Clinton rival, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, to mock her liberal values. “Give Bernie credit,” Mr. Jindal said, “At least he is honest enough to call himself a socialist.”
But the fiercest critique was from Ms. Fiorina, the sole woman in the Republican field, who repeatedly accused Mrs. Clinton of lying and declared herself uniquely capable of taking her on: “In order to beat Hillary Clinton, we have to have a nominee on our side who is going to throw every punch.”
The format seemed ill suited to a number of candidates. Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor, whose eight years out of office has left many wondering about his adroitness as a debater, delivered a low-key and sometimes halting performance — particularly on the subject of the Islamic State. He said America “needs to pick a strategy and stick with it,” but when asked about putting American forces on the ground to fight it, his answer seemed wobbly: “I’m not sure that’s necessary.”
He also stammered through his attempt at a joke about his famous family. "My dad is the probably the most perfect man alive, so it’s very hard for me to be critical of him,” he said. “In fact, I’ve got a T-shirt that says, uh, at the Jeb swag store, that says I’m the, um, I’m the, my dad’s the greatest man alive. If you don’t like it, I’ll take you outside.”
To the Editor:
Re “We Invited Donald Trump to Town” (column, Aug. 2):
Frank Bruni accurately describes the gradual decline of political dignity and reality. He might have easily summed it up in a phrase: bread and circuses.
That is what we have willingly acceded to in this country. Presidential saxophone-playing and singing and dancing aside, no one proves that point more than Donald Trump.
PEGGY SAKOW

New York
When America is growing and happy, the country is sort of like a sprinter’s track. As Robert H. Wiebe put it in his classic book “The Segmented Society,” when things were going well the diverse country comprised “countless isolated lanes where Americans, singly or in groups, dashed like rows of racers toward their goals.”
In times of scarcity and alienation, it’s more like bumper cars. Different groups feel their lanes are blocked, so they start crashing into one another. The cultural elites start feuding with the financial elites. The lower middle class starts feuding with the poor.
A few decades ago the sociologist Jonathan Rieder studied what was then the white working-class neighborhood of Canarsie, Brooklyn. People there were hostile both to their poorer black neighbors, who they felt threatened their community, and to the Manhattan elites, who they felt sold them out from above.
We are now living in a time of economic anxiety and political alienation. Just three in 10 Americans believe that their views are represented in Washington, according to a CNN/ORC poll. Confidence in public institutions like schools, banks and churches is near historic lows, according to Gallup. Only 29 percent of Americans think the nation is on the right track, according to Rasmussen.
This climate makes it hard for the establishment candidates who normally dominate our politics. Jeb Bush is swimming upstream. Hillary Clinton may win through sheer determination, but she’s not a natural fit for this moment. A career establishment figure like Joe Biden doesn’t stand a chance. He’s a wonderful man and a great public servant, but he should not run for president this year, for the sake of his long-term reputation.
On the other hand, bumper-car politicians thrive. Bernie Sanders is swimming with the tide. He’s a conviction politician comfortable with class conflict. Many people on the left have a generalized, vague hunger for fundamental systemic change or at least the atmospherics of radical change.
The times are perfect for Donald Trump. He’s an outsider, which appeals to the alienated. He’s confrontational, which appeals to the frustrated. And, in a unique 21st-century wrinkle, he’s a narcissist who thinks he can solve every problem, which appeals to people who in challenging times don’t feel confident in their understanding of their surroundings and who crave leaders who seem to be.
Trump’s populism is pretty standard. He appeals to people who, as Walter Lippmann once put it, “feel rather like a deaf spectator in the back row. … He knows he is somehow affected by what is going on. … [But] these public affairs are in no convincing way his affairs. They are for the most part invisible. They are managed, if they are managed at all, at distant centers, from behind the scenes by unnamed powers. … In the cold light of experience, he knows that his sovereignty is a fiction. He reigns in theory, but in fact he does not govern.”
When Trump is striking populist chords, he appeals to people who experience this invisibility. He appeals to members of the alienated middle class (like those folks in Canarsie) who believe that neither the rich nor the poor have to play by the same rules they do. He appeals to people who are resentful of immigrants who get what they, allegedly, don’t deserve.
But Trump’s support base is weird. It skews slightly more secular and less educated than the average Republican, but he doesn’t draw from any distinctive blocs. Unlike past populisms he’s not especially rural or urban, ethnic based or class based. He draws people as individuals, not groups.
Unlike past populisms, his main argument is not that the elites are corrupt or out of touch. It is that they are morons. His announcement speech was fascinating (and compelling). “How stupid are our leaders?” he asked rhetorically. “Our president doesn’t have a clue,” he continued. “We have people that are stupid,” he observed of the leadership class.
In other words, it’s not that our problems are unsolvable or even hard. It’s not that we’re potentially a nation in decline. The problem is that we don’t have a leadership class as smart, competent, tough and successful as Donald Trump.
Measured in standard political terms he is not ideologically consistent. As Peter Wehner pointed out, he’s taken so many liberal positions he makes Susan Collins look like Barry Goldwater. But ego is his ideology, and in this he is absolutely consistent. In the Trump mind the world is not divided into right and left. Instead there are winners and losers. Society is led by losers, who scorn and disrespect the people who are actually the winners.
Never before have we experienced a moment with so much public alienation and so much private, assertive and fragile self-esteem. Trump is the perfect confluence of these trends. He won’t be president, but he’s not an aberration. He is deeply rooted in the currents of our time.
It has been more than two weeks since Donald Trump questioned whether John McCain should be considered a war hero, and he has largely withstood the first of what will be many rounds of scrutiny and criticism from party elites and journalists.
The polls, which now fully reflect the aftermath of Mr. Trump’s comments, suggest that he has lost little or no support. It is even possible that he has gained some ground in the most recent wave of polls conducted, with his remarks further in the rearview mirror.
Even the worst campaign difficulties — like the sexual harassment allegations against Herman Cain in 2011 — can take time to make a mark in the polls. Mr. Trump’s comments were not in that category; they were significant because they brought scrutiny to his candidacy, not because his voters were likely to abandon him en masse upon hearing the remarks.
Still, count me as surprised that there has been little evidence of decline in his support — and even more surprised if he has managed to pick up additional support. The likeliest scenario is still that party and media scrutiny erodes his position. But the fact remains that he has faced this scrutiny for two weeks with little effect, at least raising the possibility that he will stick around for longer than I would have guessed.
Imagine three basic ways that Mr. Trump could fall short. The simplest one is implosion: His chances become irreparably damaged by a jolt of news, like a bad debate performance or allegations of wrongdoing. The second one is the scenario I outlined two weeks ago: Media coverage and relentless criticism from party elites gradually erode his support. The third is that his support is resilient but that his ceiling is too low to win the nomination (too many voters view him unfavorably).
The likelihood of the implosion scenario is impossible to predict. But Mr. Trump’s resilience over the last few weeks is an argument for something closer to the third possibility.
Of course, these aren’t necessarily discrete paths. Rick Perry’s support was eroded by scrutiny before his debate “oops” in 2011, and yet he retained modest support all the way through Iowa, where he won 10 percent of the vote. In the most extreme case, Mr. Trump doesn’t lose much ground and could compete for or even win Iowa and New Hampshire, even if he would ultimately lose once the field narrowed.
You can make a case either way: that Mr. Trump’s support is likely to fade or that he could remain at the top for a while.
The main reason to think his support is likely to erode under scrutiny is that his success looks a lot like a media-driven surge. If true, Mr. Trump will be particularly susceptible to decline as media coverage turns negative, as the political scientist John Sides has also argued.
But if Mr. Trump’s support is on firmer ground — say, from voters committed to his anti-immigration views or even those simply drawn to his personality — those supporters might be likelier to stick around.
The polls continue to be consistent with the media explanation. His support is broad, spanning ideological and demographic categories, which suggests that the support may be shallow and a product of name recognition.
The polls say that the second choice of Trump supporters is as likely to be Jeb Bush as anyone else. That, too, looks like what one would expect from a media-driven surge. It also suggests that the people attending his rallies or commenting on Breitbart are not representative of the one in four Republicans supporting him in the polls. That shouldn’t be too surprising. Most voters aren’t even really paying attention yet. A third of Republican voters don’t know enough about Scott Walker to hold an opinion.
But it seems possible that Mr. Trump’s plausible sources of support, like anti-immigration sentiment, don’t neatly line up with ideological lines. Maybe there are a substantial group of Republican voters, ranging from conservative to more moderate, willing to support a candidate like him, with his unusual combination of populism and celebrity. His resilience certainly makes this possibility seem a little likelier.
Yes, most candidates who haven’t held political office fail to withstand scrutiny and decline swiftly. But there are examples in this group who managed to make it to the early states, like the wealthy publishing executive Steve Forbes, who won 30 percent of the Iowa vote in 2000, and Pat Buchanan, who even won the New Hampshire primary in 1996. More generally, the history books aren’t exactly full of candidates like Mr. Trump and don’t offer us much guidance.
He has Mr. Forbes’s money (more, in fact), Mr. Buchanan’s populism and more personality and celebrity than the two combined. On the other hand, he’s at the top of the polls six months ahead of Iowa and New Hampshire. There will be a lot of time for criticism to take its toll.
He announced a “foolproof” plan to destroy the Islamic State, but said, “I’m not going to tell you what it is tonight.”
He proposed a “great wall” to keep out illegal immigrants, but changed his mind when he visited the Mexican border.
He donated $10,000 to re-elect Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, but in attacking Mr. Walker, blithely revealed that he had no idea of the governor’s record when he made the contribution.
Donald J. Trump, who will be at the center of the first Republican presidential debate Thursday night, may prove as elusive a target to his rivals as a puff of smoke.
That is because Mr. Trump’s popularity — his support in some polls is double that of his closest competitors — is built on his unfettered style, rather than on his positions, which have proved highly fungible.
He may be the first post-policy candidate.
Mr. Trump’s website, unlike those of nearly every other candidate, has no issues page. He has given no policy addresses. He has boasted that he is not spending time plowing through briefing books or practicing answers to imagined questions, the customary ways to prepare for a debate.
Yet many of Mr. Trump’s positions have an improvisational air, shifting in their specifics as he seems to dream them up or reconsider them on the fly and out loud, in free-associative speeches or shoot-from-the-hip interviews.
What some have called “Trumpism” is founded not on a specific agenda, like the bullet-point Contract With America in 1994 that led to the Republican takeover of the House. 
Rather, it is built on boiling grass-roots anger over the ineffectiveness and scripted talking points of conventional politicians on matters like illegal immigration and America’s global power.
“Everybody in the establishment misunderstands the game he’s playing,” said Newt Gingrich, the author of the Contract With America and onetime House speaker who was himself a Republican presidential candidate in 2012. “His opponents want to talk about policies. He’s saying if you don’t have a leader capable of cutting through the baloney, all this policy stuff is an excuse for inaction.”
Anticipating the debate on Wednesday, Mr. Trump said, “I’d rather just discuss the issues.” But he added in an interview on ABC’s “Good Morning America” that he would respond in kind if targeted by a rival. “If I’m attacked, I have to, you know, do something back, but I’d like it to be very civil,” he said.
Waffling, flip-flopping and inconsistencies, all of which might hobble a conventional candidate, have not dimmed Mr. Trump’s appeal to his Republican supporters.
He seemed to lose no ground as rivals and the news media pointed out the stark reversal in his ideology since he flirted with a presidential run in 1999. Back then, Mr. Trump supported abortion rights and a soak-the-rich tax on fortunes in excess of $10 million.
When another presidential contender, former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, called him “a cancer on conservatism” last month, pointing out Mr. Trump’s previous advocacy for single-payer health care and his support of Hillary Rodham Clinton, it was Mr. Perry, castigated on social media, who paid a price.
A senior adviser to Mr. Perry, Sam Clovis, the chairman of his campaign in Iowa, called Mr. Trump’s appeal “a cult of personality,” and faulted the news media for focusing on his inflammatory remarks and insults rather than on the substance of his candidacy. (On Tuesday, an online news site, Independent Journal Review, posted a compilation of video clips showing Mr. Trump delivering insults; it was 10 hours long.)
“When are the media going to start asking for specific solutions to specific problems?” Mr. Clovis asked in an interview. “I put that on you guys.”
Mr. Trump’s positions and history as a political changeling have begun to receive a vetting in the news media. Following up on his promise to replace the Affordable Care Act with “something terrific,” Bloomberg Politics dug into the somewhat vague details he had cited and concluded that his plan “sounds quite a bit like Obamacare.”
After Mr. Trump dodged Fox News’s Greta Van Susteren on his plan to defeat the Islamic State, pleading, “I don’t want the enemy to know what I’m doing,” he told Anderson Cooper of CNN, who also pressed him about the issue, that he would “bomb the hell” out of Iraqi oil fields held by the Islamic group. 
CNN followed up with military analysts who called this an ineffective strategy.
Still, as a post-policy candidate, Mr. Trump may be somewhat impervious to being pinned down, whether by the news media or by his rivals.
Citing the danger that lurks for other Republicans in taking on Mr. Trump, a ferocious counterpuncher, some debate veterans speculated that his rivals would prefer to demur.
“My impression is every one of them will go in with a line or two ready to go, if Trump seizes upon them and they can’t ignore it without looking weak,” said Dan Senor, who helped Paul Ryan prepare for his 2012 vice-presidential debate with Joseph R. Biden Jr. “But I think they’re all hoping to not have to use it.”
Mr. Trump’s seeming mutability is not limited to his own positions; in Iowa recently, he said he had not known much about Mr. Walker’s record as governor before donating to his 2014 re-election. “I didn’t know what the hell he was doing, but he was fighting, and I like a fighter. Does that make sense?” Mr. Trump said.
Perhaps Mr. Trump’s most consistent policy stance has been his opposition to trade deals, including the Trans-Pacific Partnership, that he blames for the loss of blue-collar jobs. His proposal of a 35 percent tax on goods from Mexico and higher tariffs on Chinese imports is a ratcheting up, rather than a reversal, of positions he took more than a decade ago. (Back then, as an independent espousing liberal views, he called for a one-time 14.25 percent tax on fortunes above $10 million.)
His seizing on trade and immigration in this campaign has allowed Mr. Trump to tap into the economic anxieties of American workers who have lost out in the global economy, and to capitalize on nativist fears.
Which makes attacking him on those issues, above all, a risky proposition in a Republican primary debate.
“This is a guy who’s saying some outrageous, but not inaccurate, things many people feel,” Mr. Senor said. 
“I don’t think it’s any candidate’s best interest in trying to take him down.”
Shedding any pretense of civility and party unity, Donald J. Trump overwhelmed the first Republican presidential debate on Thursday night by ripping into his rivals and the moderators alike, but also drew fire from Jeb Bush and others who are seeking to stop his breathtaking surge.
Mr. Trump displayed his trademark pugnacity from the start with a bravura moment: refusing to rule out a third-party run for the presidency if he does not win the party’s nomination. Facing loud boos from audience members in a Cleveland sports arena, he held his hand up in defiance as several other Republicans looked flabbergasted.
“I have to respect the person that, if it’s not me, the person that wins,” said Mr. Trump, the billionaire businessman and reality television star who has attracted fans in part by showing a lack of respect for politicians like Mr. Bush, who Mr. Trump has said should not be president. He then quipped, “If I’m the nominee, I will pledge I will not run as an independent.”
The much-anticipated meeting was something of a showcase for several candidates who had yet to generate much heat in the Republican primary field. Gov. John Kasich of Ohio fluidly described his fiscal leadership in the state and spoke bigheartedly about the mentally ill and the poor. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida showed a command of policy and an eagerness for the fight with Democrats. And Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin deftly defended an absolutist position against abortion while boasting of his three statewide victories in his own swing state.
Others struggled to grab the attention they needed to shore up their fund-raising or broaden their appeal beyond niche constituencies. The retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas both effectively delivered well-honed talking points and one-liners, but did not leave dramatically new impressions.
Mr. Trump’s outsize presence in the two-hour debate, shown on Fox News, was an emphatic reminder that, after eight years out of power, Republicans’ quest to regain the presidency will be complicated in the months ahead by their own internal divisions. While Mr. Trump may not ultimately become the nominee, his appeal among some conservatives has underscored how hungry many in the party’s base are for an uncompromising and authentic figure who will challenge the political order.
Unpredictable and often rambunctious, the Republican gathering was anything but a tentative affair, unlike so many other first debates of campaign cycles. Mr. Trump repeatedly made the most of his center-stage position, and ensured he would star in weeks of video clips.
In addition to refusing to rule out a third-party bid and sparring with the Fox News moderators, he boasted that the Clintons attended his third wedding because he demanded it and said, “Our politicians are stupid” while dismissing President George W. Bush’s tenure as “a catastrophe.”
In the first of the debate’s many freewheeling moments, Mr. Trump’s statement drew an instant, contemptuous retort from Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who nodded to Mr. Trump’s past donations to Hillary Rodham Clinton.
“He buys and sells politicians of all stripes,” Mr. Paul said. “So if he doesn’t run as a Republican, maybe he supports Clinton, or maybe he runs as an independent?”
Mr. Trump — whose withering put-downs have become legendary, his favorite pejorative being “loser” — was true to form in dismissing Mr. Paul.
“Well, I’ve given him plenty of money,” he said.
Even as some of the other Republicans showed moments of strength, with Mr. Paul frequently going on the attack, it was little match for the bombast of Mr. Trump.
Establishment-oriented Republicans had hoped that two terms of President Obama would make grass-roots activists pragmatic about 2016, perhaps rallying around a well-known, well-financed candidate like Mr. Bush. But the popularity of Mr. Trump’s message suggested that the party’s rank-and-file were just as interested in finding a pugilist.
Mr. Trump and Mr. Bush, who have been lashing out at each other for weeks, mostly over tone and fitness to be president, barely tangled at all. But near the end of the debate, in a moment that encapsulated the race, Mr. Bush said that Mr. Trump, who has portrayed some Mexican immigrants as rapists, was a “divisive” figure who would ensure that Republicans continued to lose.
“I want to win,” Mr. Bush said, participating in his first debate in 13 years. “We’re not going to win by doing what Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton do each and every day: dividing the country, saying, creating a grievance kind of environment. We’re going to win when we unite people with a hopeful, optimistic message.”
Mr. Trump shot back that the threats against the United States were too urgent for such concerns about “tone.”
“When you have people that are cutting Christians’ heads off, when you have a world at the border and at so many places that it’s medieval times,” Mr. Trump said, “we don’t have time for tone — we have to go out and get the job done.”
The exchange of fire between Mr. Trump and Mr. Bush — the dominant figures in the race, and two American household names — offered a preview of the broader debate to come between Republicans who believe the party must be more inclusive to win the presidency again and those determined to speak to the boiling anger in the conservative grass roots. Few of the fights were over policy, however: Mr. Trump, for one, offered few substantive details about his plans for the country.
A trio of Fox News moderators, delving deep into the records of the 10 candidates, posed a series of difficult questions, while also trying, with occasional success, to provoke arguments among them over areas of disagreement. In the first question directly to Mr. Trump, for instance, Megyn Kelly cited his negative comments about some women, whom he has called “fat pigs” and “slobs,” before Mr. Trump cut her off.
“Only Rosie O’Donnell,” he said, clearly looking for a laugh.
“For the record, it was well beyond Rosie O’Donnell,” Ms. Kelly said.
“Yes, I’m sure it was,” Mr. Trump replied, before offering an explanation that reflected his tell-it-like-it-is sensibilities.
“I think the big problem this country has is being politically correct,” he said. “I don’t frankly have time for total political correctness. And to be honest with you, this country doesn’t have time either. This country is in big trouble.” He went on to complain about rough treatment by Ms. Kelly.
Occasional alliances appeared to form among candidates, intentionally or not. Mr. Rubio and Mr. Kasich each flattered Mr. Trump by saying that he had hit a nerve with his tough talk about illegal immigration and other problems facing the United States. Mr. Trump and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey took turns belittling Mr. Paul, who has been struggling in polls and fund-raising, and who kept on the attack against Mr. Trump and other rivals throughout the debate.
In the sharpest exchange of the night between candidates, Mr. Paul and Mr. Christie, who have traded shots from afar over national security for more than two years, exchanged personal insults in a back-and-forth over surveillance and civil liberties.
After Mr. Paul said he only wanted to seek the phone records of terrorists, not average citizens, Mr. Christie called that “a completely ridiculous answer” — and then went further.
“When you’re sitting in a subcommittee, just blowing hot air about this, you can say things like that,” Mr. Christie said.
Mr. Paul, his voice rising, said Mr. Christie misunderstood the Bill of Rights and then offered his own stinging rejoinder.
“I don’t trust President Obama with our records,” he said, before lowering the boom with a reference to the embrace between Mr. Obama and Mr. Christie after Hurricane Sandy in 2012, a moment that still haunts Mr. Christie with conservatives: “I know you gave him a big hug.”
Boos and cheers from the audience quickly enveloped the exchange on stage. Mr. Christie, seemingly ready for the attack, shot back that the hugs he recalled were with “the families who lost their people on Sept. 11.”
The moderators tried to incite a confrontation between Mr. Bush and Mr. Rubio, who were once allies in Florida politics but now hope to bury each other’s candidacies in the March primary there, pressing them over Mr. Bush’s support for the Common Core education standards. But Mr. Rubio went to higher ground and discussed school reform without disparaging Mr. Bush, one of several moments when he struck a positive tone about his fellow Republicans.
Mr. Rubio did go on the offensive against Mrs. Clinton, the leading Democratic presidential candidate, painting her as out of touch with the financial struggles of many Americans.
“If I’m our nominee, how is Hillary Clinton going to lecture me about living paycheck to paycheck?” Mr. Rubio asked. “I was raised paycheck to paycheck.”
Later, he expanded on the hit. “God has blessed the Republican Party with some very good candidates,” he said. “The Democrats can’t even find one.”
Mr. Kasich struck one of the most empathetic notes when he was asked what he would say to one of his daughters if she came out as gay, given that he opposes same-sex marriage.
“I just went to a wedding of a friend of mine who happens to be gay,” Mr. Kasich said. “Because someone doesn’t think the way I do doesn’t mean that I can’t care about them or can’t love them.” He added, to cheers, that he would say “that of course I would love them. And I would accept them, because you know what, that’s what we’re taught when we have strong faith.”
Even though Mr. Trump’s shadow loomed large for much of the two-hour debate, other Republicans on stage demonstrated why many in the party believe they have one of the best presidential fields in decades.
Mr. Walker appeared fluent on policy and emerged untouched by rivals. And Mr. Kasich, who had barely made the debate cut, won repeated applause from the home-state crowd and suggested he could be a threat to Mr. Bush.
Winning a primary debate isn’t about having the best one-liners or drawing the biggest applause.
For top candidates, it’s an audition for party elites, moneyed supporters and, secondarily, voters. The goal isn’t to wow the crowd or surge in the polls, but to reassure — to confirm their ability to win and handle the presidency. For less serious or low-profile candidates, it’s an opportunity to break out — to cause party elites to reconsider or get voters to coalesce behind them.
And whether they do so depends a lot more on how the news media covers the debates than the performances themselves.
From this point of view, the “winners” and “losers” of the debates can end up looking a lot different than what you see on Twitter. A candidate who gets by without much notice could be a winner; a candidate who gets the most attention might, in doing so, have denied himself the elite support it ultimately takes to win.
With that in mind, I suspect most pundits will conclude that Jeb Bush did not do well, no matter how one looks at it. Did he make any great errors? No. He even did well at times, and probably grew stronger as the debate went on. But he did not always nail tough but predictable questions, like on the war in Iraq.
Mr. Bush is less conservative than many other candidates. If he doesn’t show that he can be an especially strong candidate in the general election, and if there are equal or better and more conservative alternatives, it’s hard to imagine today’s conservative Republican Party ultimately coalescing behind him.
There were many equal or better and more conservative alternatives. All of his top three rivals — Scott Walker, Marco Rubio and John Kasich — had good performances.
Mr. Rubio, the senator from Florida, has a good case to be considered the debate’s top performer. A weaker Mr. Bush probably benefits Mr. Rubio as much as anyone, and if Mr. Bush raised questions about whether he would be a great general election candidate, then Mr. Rubio added yet more reason to believe he could be a good one. Mr. Rubio still has the challenge of figuring out how to break through a strong field in a factional party.
With so little time having passed after the debate, it’s impossible to know whether the media will deem him the sort of overwhelming winner who will get the attention necessary to make a big jump in the polls. But even if this is not the moment he breaks through, he surely advanced his case among the many electability-minded and conservative party elites with reservations about the abilities of both Mr. Bush and Mr. Walker.
Mr. Walker won by not losing. In a lot of ways, the moderators’ tough, specific questions played to Mr. Walker’s weakness. He didn’t have much time to emphasize his fight against unions in Wisconsin. But he handled several tough questions — on abortion; on relations with Arab nations; what he would do after terminating the Iran deal; race; and his employment record — without appearing flustered or making a mistake. His answers were concise and sharp.
His ability to handle tough questions — not his ability to earn the support of conservatives — was the big question facing Mr. Walker entering the debate, and he at least passed the test. He probably didn’t do so well as to completely dispel these concerns, but he didn’t set back his case and may have advanced it.
Mr. Walker’s uneventful performance, however, still poses risks. For him, the danger is that it will provide an opening for a more dynamic conservative to eat away at his support on the right.
Mr. Kasich also advanced his cause. He entered as a largely unknown candidate outside of Ohio, where he is governor. But he was backed by a supportive audience, he deftly handled tough questions, and he had a solid answer on a question about attending same-sex weddings. His answer might not resonate among many Republicans, but it will resonate in New Hampshire — the state where he needs to deny Mr. Bush a path to victory and vault to the top of the pack.
It was Donald Trump, though, who might have had the weakest performance. No, it may not be the end of his surge. But he consistently faced pointed questions, didn’t always have satisfactory answers, endured a fairly hostile crowd and probably won’t receive as much media attention coming out of the debate as he did in the weeks before it. If you take the view that he’s heavily dependent on media coverage, that’s an issue. Whatever coverage he does get may be fairly negative — probably focusing on his unwillingness to guarantee support for the Republican nominee.
Others in the field — Ted Cruz, Rand Paul, Ben Carson, Chris Christie and Mike Huckabee — probably didn’t bolster their cases. Few made mistakes. All had their moments, especially Mr. Carson on race and Mr. Cruz on ISIS. Many of those moments might have been good enough to earn credit among their natural supporters. But I doubt any of them did so well as to earn the media attention or grass-roots energy necessary to move from the middle to the top of the pack.
But this could change if the media — either conservative or mainstream — coalesces around a narrative that makes any of these candidates a victor.
Donald J. Trump was outrageous. He was demeaning. He was even somewhat menacing, warning a female moderator that he could turn on her at any moment.
When confronted with his tendency to describe the women he dislikes as “fat pigs,” “slobs” or “disgusting animals,” he dismissively replied that neither he nor the United States “have time for political correctness.”
After he thoroughly rattled the Republican presidential field and emerged as its singular vexation in the 2016 campaign, the question hovering over Mr. Trump, the developer turned reality TV star turned candidate, was whether he would adopt the measured and diplomatic manner of a plausible president for Thursday night’s debate.
Not a chance.
From the opening moments of the evening, when he flashed a wry grin and a mischievous victory sign at the boisterous crowd, Mr. Trump remained his irrepressible self: aggrandizing, unapologetic and cutting.
“I don’t think you heard me,” he scowled at Senator Rand Paul, when the lawmaker — who uses hearing aids — sought to interrupt him, then added condescendingly, “You’re having a hard time tonight.”
Over and over, in moments that were as startling as they were comedic, he openly flouted the rules of political decorum — not to mention those of a Republican Party that punishes disloyalty and the slightest flirtation with members of the opposition.
At one point, Mr. Trump bragged about his donations to the nation’s leading Democrat and a rival candidate for the White House, Hillary Rodham Clinton, saying the contribution gave him the power to beckon, if not demand, her attendance at his most recent nuptials.
“I said, ‘Be at my wedding.’ And she came to my wedding,” Mr. Trump declared. “You know why? She didn’t have a choice because I gave.”
At another moment, he boasted about making a “lot of money” before abandoning his casino business in a struggling Atlantic City as a dumbfounded Chris Christie, the governor of New Jersey who has sought to revive the seaside town, looked on. “Chris can tell you,” Mr. Trump said.
In his antic performance, Mr. Trump telegraphed that he would stick with a candidacy whose sole selling point is a fiery and uncontrollable personality. And it is unclear that he is capable of, or even interested in, turning the anger that he has stirred into a full-fledged political movement or a set of policy prescriptions that could attract a broader following.
He seemed to both amuse and alienate the audience at the Quicken Loans Arena in Cleveland and beyond. He severely tested their tolerance when, at the start of the debate, he blithely refused to rule out a third-party run that could doom the Republican nominee.
In an unfamiliar experience for a candidate accustomed to adoring crowds, the arena erupted into jeers.
“I have to respect the person,” Mr. Trump said of the nominee, suggesting that should the winner be somebody other than him, that would be highly unlikely.
His rivals seemed painfully unsure of how to respond to his overwhelming stage presence. They tried flattery (“He is hitting a nerve,” said Gov. John Kasich of Ohio). They tried emulating him. (Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said the country needs a truth teller.) One of them, Mr. Paul, courted danger by directly confronting Mr. Trump, seizing on what would seem to be an obvious vulnerability: Mr. Trump’s past support for Democrats.
“He buys and sells politicians of all stripes,” Mr. Paul said with disdain.
Mr. Trump’s reply? I bought you, too.
“I’ve given plenty of money to him,” he said.
Everything about Mr. Trump’s comportment on Thursday conveyed complete indifference to the expectations of the Republican establishment.
His preparations were virtually nonexistent. As his fellow White House aspirants diligently rehearsed for the two-hour forum, burying themselves in briefing books and devoting days to mock debate sessions, he blithely announced that such labors were unnecessary. And he seemed to treat the event itself as just another appointment on his packed schedule, arriving in Cleveland oddly late in the day, aboard his Boeing 757.
His dead-center placement on the stage amounted to a signal moment in the interlacing of America’s political system and its entertainment industry. Not since 1980, when Ronald Reagan, a Hollywood leading man who built a comparatively hefty résumé in government as the two-term governor of California, has either party fielded a candidate who so conspicuously straddled both worlds.
At times on Thursday night, it was hard to distinguish between Mr. Trump the presidential candidate and Mr. Trump the irascible reality TV star, ready to fire the Fox News hosts sitting in front of him.
When Megyn Kelly pressed Mr. Trump on his unflattering descriptions of women, Mr. Trump grew impatient and, finally, intimidating.
“Honestly, Megyn, if you don’t like it, I’m sorry,” he said. “I’ve been very nice to you, although I could probably maybe not be based on the way you have treated me.”
Despite the assurances from the moderators that Mr. Trump would not hijack the high-profile opportunity for the Republican field to introduce itself to America, the businessman could not be stopped.
He received about three times as many opportunities to speak as some of his fellow candidates — a gap that left lesser-known rivals, like Ben Carson, moaning about an elusive spotlight. “I wasn’t sure I was going to get to talk again,” Mr. Carson said plaintively.
But as Mr. Trump learned, when the show is not your own, it is difficult to control the outcome.
Whenever the crowd or the moderators signaled disapproval, a pursed-lipped frown came over his face and he seemed genuinely wounded.
“I don’t think they like me very much,” he said.
This was, according to many commentators, going to be the election cycle Republicans got to show off their “deep bench.” The race for the nomination would include experienced governors like Jeb Bush and Scott Walker, fresh thinkers like Rand Paul, and attractive new players like Marco Rubio. Instead, however, Donald Trump leads the field by a wide margin. What happened?
The answer, according to many of those who didn’t see it coming, is gullibility: People can’t tell the difference between someone who sounds as if he knows what he’s talking about and someone who is actually serious about the issues. And for sure there’s a lot of gullibility out there. But if you ask me, the pundits have been at least as gullible as the public, and still are.
For while it’s true that Mr. Trump is, fundamentally, an absurd figure, so are his rivals. If you pay attention to what any one of them is actually saying, as opposed to how he says it, you discover incoherence and extremism every bit as bad as anything Mr. Trump has to offer. And that’s not an accident: Talking nonsense is what you have to do to get anywhere in today’s Republican Party.
For example, Mr. Trump’s economic views, a sort of mishmash of standard conservative talking points and protectionism, are definitely confused. But is that any worse than Jeb Bush’s deep voodoo, his claim that he could double the underlying growth rate of the American economy? And Mr. Bush’s credibility isn’t helped by his evidence for that claim: the relatively rapid growth Florida experienced during the immense housing bubble that coincided with his time as governor.
Mr. Trump, famously, is a “birther” — someone who has questioned whether President Obama was born in the United States. But is that any worse than Scott Walker’s declaration that he isn’t sure whether the president is a Christian?
Mr. Trump’s declared intention to deport all illegal immigrants is definitely extreme, and would require deep violations of civil liberties. But are there any defenders of civil liberties in the modern G.O.P.? Notice how eagerly Rand Paul, self-described libertarian, has joined in the witch hunt against Planned Parenthood.
And while Mr. Trump is definitely appealing to know-nothingism, Marco Rubio, climate change denier, has made “I’m not a scientist” his signature line. (Memo to Mr. Rubio: Presidents don’t have to be experts on everything, but they do need to listen to experts, and decide which ones to believe.)
The point is that while media puff pieces have portrayed Mr. Trump’s rivals as serious men — Jeb the moderate, Rand the original thinker, Marco the face of a new generation — their supposed seriousness is all surface. Judge them by positions as opposed to image, and what you have is a lineup of cranks. And as I said, this is no accident.
It has long been obvious that the conventions of political reporting and political commentary make it almost impossible to say the obvious — namely, that one of our two major parties has gone off the deep end. Or as the political analysts Thomas Mann and Norman Ornstein put it in their book “It’s Even Worse Than It Looks,” the G.O.P. has become an “insurgent outlier … unpersuaded by conventional understanding of facts, evidence, and science.” It’s a party that has no room for rational positions on many major issues.
Or to put it another way, modern Republican politicians can’t be serious — not if they want to win primaries and have any future within the party. Crank economics, crank science, crank foreign policy are all necessary parts of a candidate’s resume.
Until now, however, leading Republicans have generally tried to preserve a facade of respectability, helping the news media to maintain the pretense that it was dealing with a normal political party. What distinguishes Mr. Trump is not so much his positions as it is his lack of interest in maintaining appearances. And it turns out that the party’s base, which demands extremist positions, also prefers those positions delivered straight. Why is anyone surprised?
Remember how Mr. Trump was supposed to implode after his attack on John McCain? Mr. McCain epitomizes the strategy of sounding moderate while taking extreme positions, and is much loved by the press corps, which puts him on TV all the time. But Republican voters, it turns out, couldn’t care less about him.
Can Mr. Trump actually win the nomination? I have no idea. But even if he is eventually pushed aside, pay no attention to all the analyses you will read declaring a return to normal politics. That’s not going to happen; normal politics left the G.O.P. a long time ago. At most, we’ll see a return to normal hypocrisy, the kind that cloaks radical policies and contempt for evidence in conventional-sounding rhetoric. And that won’t be an improvement.
Donald J. Trump, the real estate developer and presidential hopeful, sold one of the two penthouses he owned at the Trump Park Avenue to the founder of the Fresh Market, a supermarket chain, for $21,383,250, a transaction that was the most expensive closed sale of the week, according to city records. 
Mr. Trump, whose primary residence is a different penthouse at the Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue, maintained the full-floor apartment, PH24, at 502 Park Avenue and 59th Street, as an investment after converting the building, designed by Goldner & Goldner in the late 1920s, into a luxury condominium a decade ago. He is also selling another investment apartment there, PH31-32, a 6,278-square-foot duplex at the pinnacle, with an asking price of $35 million, according to Michelle E. Griffith of Trump International Realty, the agent for both units. 
Ray D. Berry, the founder and chairman of the Fresh Market, purchased PH24, which has monthly carrying charges of $16,272, at a significant discount from the most recent asking price of $24.995 million. He was represented by Alatia Bradley Bach and Leighton Candler of the Corcoran Group. 
The 12-room apartment, with numerous floor-to-ceiling windows that offer expansive cityscape views, has five bedrooms and seven and a half baths over 6,192 square feet; it includes a private elevator that opens to a foyer, a great room and a library/media room. The master suite has a study and two baths.
Over the last few years, Mr. Trump rented out the apartment for an average of $80,000 a month, Ms. Griffith said, noting that the unit most recently had been listed as both for sale and for rent. It had an asking price of as much as $35 million two years ago, according to StreetEasy.com. 
Asked whether Mr. Trump had sold the penthouse to help fill his campaign coffers, Ms. Griffith said, “We had this apartment on the market before the campaign.” 
In last week’s runner-up sale, the architect Cesar Pelli, whose vast portfolio includes some of the world’s tallest buildings, bought a lower-floor apartment at the San Remo for $17,500,000, according to city records. 
Mr. Pelli and his wife, Diana Balmori, a landscape architect, paid $1 million below the asking price for the five-bedroom six-and-a-half-bath co-op, No. 5C, at 145 Central Park West, between 74th and 75th Streets; the monthly maintenance is $9,491, according to StreetEasy.com. John Burger of Brown Harris Stevens was the listing broker. The seller was Rona Maurer, whose daughter Justine is married to the actor and comedian John Leguizamo, the voice of Sid the Sloth in the “Ice Age” animated movies. 
The apartment, fronting Central Park, has a private elevator bank that opens to a large marble gallery. There are 12 rooms spread over 4,900 square feet, including a library, a formal dining room and a corner living room that has five large casement windows and a hand-carved fireplace mantel. The master bedroom suite includes a walk-in closet and dressing room, and, like many of the other 137 units in the 28-story building, the apartment has a staff wing. 
Built in 1930, the San Remo was designed with its distinctive twin towers, colonnaded top lanterns and copper finials by Emery Roth, a prolific architect renowned for his elegant Manhattan apartment buildings. 
Mr. Pelli is best known for his skyscrapers, including the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur, among the world’s tallest buildings, and the World Financial Center in Manhattan, now known as Brookfield Place. Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday.
There was a moment at the Republican debate in Cleveland on Thursday night — actually, there were several moments, but this one in particular lingered, and lingers, as an illuminating episode. You’ll never guess who was in the middle of it: starts with T and ends with “rump.”
It occurred offstage, about a half-hour after the Rumble in the Rust Belt ended. The various campaign operatives, surrogates and hangers-on had repaired to the spin room — that designated nonsense preserve adjacent to the debate hall where propaganda is parceled and selfies with celeb reporters on TV get snapped (“Hey, you’re Carl Cameron of Fox!”).
Spin rooms are stupid, crowded and almost never worth showing up to as a journalist except out of some collective sense of obligation, inertia, fatigue and self-loathing — all of which are in ample supply at the political-media nexus. Candidates themselves rarely show up in spin rooms, unless they really need the attention or have a particular mess to clean up — as Rick Perry did after his infamous “oops” debate in 2012, when he tried, with little success, to self-deprecate away the self-defecation he had just performed on stage.
Yet the institution has persisted at debates well beyond its usefulness, if the spin room was ever useful to begin with (debatable). Little of consequence ever happens. Last night seemed no different until some commotion started erupting in a corner. The rumble seemed to be approaching a stampede for a few seconds: A crush of people was moving to a not-immediately-visible focal point. Imagine a version of Pamplona where the frantic mass is actually pursuing the bull rather than fleeing it.
The bull was Trump, of course. In the flesh and hair, himself, in the spin room: It was as if being deprived of media attention in the brief interlude between the end of the debate and his morning interviews would suffocate him, as if he could not survive without this fix of TV lights before a few airless hours.
People kept shoving, yelling at each other (“Back off, back off, give him space”). A few fell down; a photographer was hurled into a boom mike.
From across the room, where I was standing, there was a brief sense that, whoa, maybe the normal order would not hold. Could we actually see multiple injuries in a spin-room stampede? This had never happened before, to my knowledge.
But Trump had never happened before, at least in this great democracy pageant of ours. Would this be another moment when the whole thing — the traditional campaigns and the rules as we’ve known them — might go off the rails in a weird and huge and scary way?
This instance did conjure a kind of professional-wrestling pandemonium. I’m not the first to make this analogy with regard to this Republican primary. But you wondered if this was for real and what could happen next. It was scary and extreme and thrilling, too. It was the chaos of Trump in a nutshell. If only Rowdy Roddy Piper, who died last month, had been alive to witness it.
I didn’t get close enough to the action to hear what Trump was actually saying. He apparently had talked about how much he enjoyed himself at the debate, even though he thought the questions he was asked were harder than everyone else’s and that the Fox News moderator Megyn Kelly had “behaved very badly, personally.” Kelly had, among other things, questioned Trump about having called women “fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals.”
“Only Rosie O’Donnell,” Trump attempted to clarify (whoa).
There were big laughs, unless they were gasps. This was not your father’s debate, or grandmother’s or Romney’s.
One of the fascinating things about Thursday night was that no one seemed certain about how Trump actually did in the debate and what it would mean for him. There seemed to be a consensus that some candidates performed well (Marco Rubio, John Kasich and Carly Fiorina, in the early round) and that no one hurt himself too badly. But it was all over the map with Trump. Either he dominated the proceeding and solidified his position as the supercoiffed gorilla in the field or this was the beginning of the end for him, being called out as he was by Kelly (just as it was supposed to be the beginning of the end after he denigrated Mexican immigrants and John McCain’s war record, except that he only kept surging in polls).
Another riveting aspect: No one has any idea where this will end up and what the new rules will be if the dust ever settles. At the very least, hopefully no one will get hurt, except perhaps America.
As midnight approached in the spin room, someone with a camera in the back of the Trump scrum crashed to the ground. There was more shouting, and it seemed that someone made the executive decision to end this thing before paramedics intervened. The mass moved out and was gone as quickly as it had materialized. Trump, who now had his oxygen, departed the scene and tweeted through the night.
Donald J. Trump’s suggestion that a Fox News journalist had questioned him forcefully at the Republican presidential debate because she was menstruating cost him a speaking slot Saturday night at an influential gathering of conservatives in Atlanta. It also raised new questions about how much longer Republican Party leaders would have to contend with Mr. Trump’s disruptive presence in the primary field.
Continuing his complaints about Megyn Kelly, one of the moderators of the debate, in an interview on CNN Friday night, Mr. Trump said, “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.” The remark prompted Erick Erickson, the leader of RedState, the conservative group, to disinvite him.
“If your standard-bearer has to resort to that,” Mr. Erickson told hundreds of conservative activists in a packed Atlanta hotel ballroom on Saturday, “we need a new standard-bearer.”
With Mr. Trump at center stage Thursday in Cleveland, Fox News shattered television viewership records for a primary debate: Nearly 24 million people watched. But any hopes that Mr. Trump, the real estate developer and television celebrity, would try to reinvent himself as a sober-minded statesman, or that he would collapse under scrutiny and tough questions, vaporized in the opening minutes when he refused to rule out running as an independent candidate for president. His remarks Friday only furthered the impression that he also had no intention of speaking more carefully. Mr. Trump denied on Saturday that he had been implying that Ms. Kelly was menstruating. “I think only a degenerate would think that I would have meant that,” he said in an interview, insisting that he had been referring to Ms. Kelly’s nose and ears.
But as his latest eruption rippled through Republican circles, the conversation turned to whether the party, and his rival presidential contenders, should continue to accommodate his candidacy, quietly hoping that this would be the moment he burned out — or whether they should try to run him out on a rail.
If party leaders saw danger in provoking a breakup — and no small advantage to be seized from the ratings bonanza Mr. Trump showed himself capable of delivering — there were signs that other influential Republicans would tolerate only so much of Mr. Trump’s behavior.
“Come on,” Jeb Bush, who has campaigned as the adult among the party’s 17 presidential candidates, said in his remarks at the RedState gathering. “Give me a break. Do we want to win? Do we want to insult 53 percent of all voters? What Donald Trump said is wrong.”
Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard chief executive, who delivered perhaps the most assertive turn in Thursday’s debate among the candidates trailing in the polls, posted on Twitter: “Mr. Trump: There. Is. No. Excuse.” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina went further, saying, “Enough already with Mr. Trump.”
Yet in a sign of the lingering reluctance among some in the field to anger Mr. Trump’s supporters, other candidates, including former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, would not condemn Mr. Trump’s comments. 
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, in an interview to be broadcast Sunday, praised Ms. Kelly but stopped short of calling on Mr. Trump to apologize. “I’ve made a decision here with Donald Trump, you know, if I comment on everything he says, my whole campaign will be consumed by it,” he said. “That’s all I’ll do all day.”
Mr. Rubio made the comments to Chuck Todd in a taped interview for NBC’s “Meet the Press.”
Mr. Erickson — an author with his own track record of inflammatory remarks, sometimes about women — announced just before midnight Friday on the RedState website that he was disinviting Mr. Trump. He wrote that he admired Mr. Trump for his bluntness and for connecting with “so much of the anger in the Republican base.”
“But there are even lines blunt talkers and unprofessional politicians should not cross,” he wrote. “Decency is one of those lines.” 
He added, “I just don’t want someone on stage who gets a hostile question from a lady and his first inclination is to imply it was hormonal.”
Mr. Trump’s campaign shot back at Mr. Erickson, calling him a “weak and pathetic leader” and his decision “another example of weakness through being politically correct.” 
But on Saturday, Mr. Trump seemed to recognize that he needed to create a diversion from the latest controversy and declared that he had fired Roger Stone, a Republican strategist and mischief-maker who had long been an adviser. But Mr. Stone said in an interview that he had resigned because the tenor of the campaign was distracting from Mr. Trump’s core message.
In an interview with The New York Times on Friday afternoon, before he went on CNN, Mr. Trump said he was irritated by the debate moderators’ questions about a third-party candidacy, saying he wanted to run as a Republican, but he reiterated his threat to mount one if he is unhappy with his treatment by party leaders. An independent candidacy would be complicated and costly, he said, but “if you’re rich, it’s doable.”
Some Republicans were trying to determine just who was rallying to Mr. Trump’s side, and how damaging it would be if his supporters left the party’s fold.
“Trump isn’t and wasn’t going to get the conservative vote,” Joseph W. McQuaid, publisher of the Union Leader newspaper in New Hampshire, said in an email. “Conservative Republicans are worried about their party, but it’s still their party. Trump isn’t philosophically a conservative, and that will come out.”
“Trump’s base is more the people who used to have season tickets to the Roman Colosseum,” Mr. McQuaid wrote. “Not sure that they vote in great numbers, but they like blood sport.”
But others on the right said the disaffected voters rallying to Mr. Trump represented a constituency that Republicans would be foolish to ignore.
“People have to get their minds wrapped around the fact that the seething fury at the leadership of the Republican Party is real, and it’s going to bubble over somehow with somebody, and right now it’s with Trump,” said the conservative talk show host Laura Ingraham, noting that there were “a lot of ticked-off people out there who are willing to throw both parties into the fire.”
Mr. Erickson himself got a taste of Mr. Trump’s die-hard loyalists, recounting in his speech at the conference Saturday that he had received a vitriolic response to his decision to bar Mr. Trump.
“We will not gain the White House,” said Mr. Erickson about the inflammatory messages he had received, “if we’re screaming at people, calling them whores and queer and the N-word.”
Even before Friday night, prominent Republican women said they were worried about how female voters would respond to Mr. Trump’s prominence on the debate stage, where he defended imprecations like “fat pigs” and “bimbo” to describe women — and his rivals did not chide him.
But Mr. Trump’s comment Friday night about Ms. Kelly caused a new bout of consternation among senior Republican leaders, who saw it as the latest distraction from the business of choosing a presidential candidate who can return the White House to the party in 2016. 
“We need to nominate somebody who can win, somebody who is substantive and somebody who knows how to govern,” said former Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire. “But we can’t have that debate in the full jacket as long as we’re sidetracked off on this Trump exercise. It does undermine our ability to have a substantive debate. All the substantive arguments are being muted by his persona.”
Still, Mr. Gregg said that while RedState was wise to bar him from its event, the party would only “make him an even larger figure” by trying to keep him out of future debates. “He’d love that,” Mr. Gregg said. “He loves when institutional forces take him on. That’s part of his shtick.”
He added: “The campaign is serious, but his campaign isn’t. It’s entertainment. What’s the line of decency in the entertainment world? It’s pretty far out there.”
Some in the party have mused privately about using Mr. Trump’s refusal to rule out an independent bid as grounds to bar him from future debates, but there is deep concern that such a heavy-handed effort would only prod him into pursuing such a run.
It also appeared unlikely that any network could be persuaded to exclude him. As Mr. Trump crowed Friday in a telephone interview, “I’m a ratings machine.”
In Atlanta, there was resignation to the likelihood that Mr. Trump would continue to draw support from voters looking to rage against the political establishment. But some of the grass-roots activists in attendance described him as a jester, not a threat.
David Pettigrew, a retiree from Milledgeville, Ga., said he knew many conservatives who regretted voting for Ross Perot in 1992 out of frustration with President George Bush. (Mr. Perot’s third-party candidacy is widely believed to have helped tilt the election to Bill Clinton.) But he said he doubted Mr. Trump could win over enough disgruntled Republicans to undermine the party’s nominee.
“Hell, if he wants to run as a third party, have at it,” Mr. Pettigrew said.
Mr. Trump, for his part, fired off a defiant salute to the RedState crowd on Twitter Saturday morning: “I miss you all, and thanks for all of your support. Political correctness is killing our country.”
He added in a word what he thought of his critics: “weakness.”
Washington — I’VE been hesitant to start writing about Donald Trump.
I was worried that if I wrote something that made him mad, he would send out one of his midnight mordant tweets about me, something like “She started as a 3. Now she’s a 1.”
I’d be upset, of course. And relieved that I wasn’t a 0. But I’ve known Trump a long time. That’s how he talks about women. I remember when he sadly broke the news that Heidi Klum was no longer a 10.
He offered this clinical breakdown about Halle Berry to Howard Stern: “From the midsection to the shoulders, she’s a 10. The face is a solid 8. And the legs are maybe a little bit less than that.”
As he once told me: “Certain guys tell me they want women of substance, not beautiful models. It just means they can’t get beautiful models.”
So when Fox News’s Megyn Kelly grilled Trump during the Republican debate, asking him about his sometimes vicious Twitter account and noting, “You’ve called women you don’t like ‘fat pigs,’ ‘dogs,’ ‘slobs’ and ‘disgusting animals,’ ” I knew what the glamorous former litigator was up to.
It was Tom Cruise taunting Jack Nicholson in “A Few Good Men.” Kelly was trying to get Trump to lash out in a misogynist way. But he restrained himself in the hall, staying away from the slob-to-supermodel rating system he likes to use. He showed his irritation later, tweeting that the anchor “bombed” and was “totally overrated” and “angry,” and he retweeted a post calling her a “bimbo.”
There was something amusing about Fox News, which is a daily Miss Universe pageant, chockablock with glossy beauties as anchors, reporters and even “experts,” giving The Donald a hard time about focusing on women’s looks.
I came away from the debate thinking three things: Roger Ailes is a television genius. It’s no coincidence that he presided over the ninth-most-viewed show ever on cable, after college football, with the extra kick of eclipsing his nemesis Jon Stewart’s big finale.
Kelly has a lot of Tim Russert in her: She knows how to set up mesmerizing Gunfights at the O.K. Corral, loaded for a follow-up after every salvo.
And Trump is, as always, the gleefully offensive and immensely entertaining high-chair king in the Great American Food Fight. He is, as Kurt Andersen wrote in 2006, “our 21st-century reincarnation of P. T. Barnum and Diamond Jim Brady, John Gotti minus the criminal organization, the only white New Yorker who lives as large as the blingiest, dissiest rapper — de trop personified.”
The novelist Walter Kirn tweeted post-debate: “Trump is simply channeling the bruised petty enraged narcissism that is the natural condition of Selfie Nation.”
After all, as James Gleick has tweeted, “Running for president is the new selfie.”
I enjoy Trump’s hyperbolic, un-P.C. flights because there are too few operatic characters in the world. I think of him as a Toon. He’s just drawn that way. And his Frank Sinatra lingo about women aside, he always treated me courteously and professionally.
Back in 1999, when he was flirting with a presidential run, I asked the ladies’ man how he would do with the women’s vote.
“I might do badly,” he said with a smile. “They know me better than anybody else. Women are much tougher and more calculating than men. I relate better to women.”
This campaign is more raw and rude than usual, reflecting the off-with-their-heads Twitter sensibility. But it can not only be wickedly fun but wildly useful to have an id agitating amid the superegos.
After covering nine presidential races, I have concluded that it is really hard to know who you’re electing — even after attenuated campaigns with an absurd amount of exposure for candidates.
That’s because you can’t foresee what crises will crop up, or what gremlins of insecurity and perversity the White House will inevitably elicit in presidential psyches.
You can have a candidate like W., after sincerely telling us he will have a “humble” foreign policy, proceed to stumble jejunely into decades-long wars in the Middle East. You can have a charming newcomer like Barack Obama, ascending like a political Pegasus, who loses altitude because it turns out he disdains politics.
It’s always a pig in a poke. So why not a pig who pokes?
It will cause winces and grimaces at times and Trump can go badly astray, as he did with the president’s birth certificate. His jibes at women may hurt the Republican Party with some women.
His policy ideas are ripped from the gut instead of the head. Still, he can be a catalyst, challenging his rivals where they need to be challenged and smoking them out, ripping off the facades they’ve constructed with their larcenous image makers. Trump can pierce the trompe l’oeil illusions, starting with Jeb’s defense of his brother’s smashing the family station wagon into the globe.
Consider how Trump yanked back the curtain Thursday night explaining how financial quid pro quos warp the political system.
“Well, I’ll tell you what, with Hillary Clinton, I said be at my wedding and she came to my wedding,” he said. “You know why? She had no choice because I gave. I gave to a foundation that, frankly, that foundation is supposed to do good. I didn’t know her money would be used on private jets going all over the world.”
Sometimes you need a showman in the show.
Postscript
After this column went to press Friday night, Trump had his full-blown Jack Nicholson “You need me on that wall” meltdown over Kelly. He went on CNN and complained about her “ridiculous” questions, telling Don Lemon that “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.”
Erick Erickson, who has been criticized himself for insensitivity toward women, quickly disinvited Trump from a gig at the RedState Gathering, inviting Kelly instead, and blogging “I just don’t want someone on stage who gets a hostile question from a lady and his first inclination is to imply it was hormonal.”
Trump made a stab at defending himself in a tweet, indicating that he had meant blood might also come out of Kelly’s nose. He also huffily tweeted about “so many ‘politically correct’ fools in our country.”
In a post headlined “Turns out Megyn packs kryptonite,” Politico’s Mike Allen noted that Trump’s deputy, Michael Cohen, retweeted a tweet (from an account called “surfersfortrump”) with the hashtag “boycottmegynkelly” and the message “we can gut her.”
Even in opéra bouffe, showmen can get thrown out of the show if they cross certain boorish lines. Trump just can’t stop himself. Or doesn’t want to. As Carly Fiorina tweeted: “Mr. Trump: There. Is. No. Excuse.” Congratulating his Fox debate anchors in a tweet, Rupert Murdoch had some choice words for his billionaire frenemy: “Friend Donald has to learn this is public life.”
A defiant Donald J. Trump suggested on Sunday that he had been singled out for attacks by the hosts of last week’s widely watched Republican presidential debate and again threatened a third-party White House bid if he was not treated “reasonably fairly” by party leaders.
In a rapid-fire series of phone interviews with four Sunday television news programs, Mr. Trump defended his record on women’s issues, arguing that his real estate company had been among the first to put women in charge of major construction projects and that he had “always had a great relationship to the women.” He continued his criticism of the moderators of the debate on the Fox News network saying that no other candidate had been subjected to similarly tough questioning.
And he struck back at critics of his remarks about Megyn Kelly, one of the Fox moderators, which had resulted in his invitation to a meeting of conservatives in Atlanta on Saturday being rescinded. He said that his appraisal of Ms. Kelly’s motives for questioning him sharply during the debate — that she had “blood coming out of her wherever” — was being misconstrued by his rivals as a reference to menstruation in an effort to dampen his surge in the Republican primary. He had made similar remarks, he told more than one interviewer, about her co-moderator, Chris Wallace.
“I was going to say nose and/or ears, because that’s a very common statement,” Mr. Trump said on CNN’s “State of the Union,” before launching into a recitation of his résumé. “I went to the Wharton School of Finance. I was an excellent student. I’m a smart person. I built a tremendous company,” he said, adding: “You think I’d make a stupid statement like that?”
Mr. Trump’s counterattack came amid escalating criticism from other Republicans, who demanded that Mr. Trump apologize to Ms. Kelly and openly fretted that Mr. Trump’s rhetoric could alienate female voters at a time when the party was under pressure to broaden its appeal. The exchanges suggested a looming battle between Mr. Trump, whose blunt manner and celebrity have made him the top-polling Republican candidate, and the Republican establishment, which believes that Mr. Trump will ultimately hurt the party but has few tools to bring him to heel.
It was not the first time Mr. Trump has suggested that he is considering running for president as an independent. Most recently, in an interview on Friday, Mr. Trump suggested that the debate moderators’ questions could move him closer to a third-party run.
“I may have a timeline” for a third-party bid, Mr. Trump said.
“I went from the fair-haired boy to the anti-establishment guy,” he said, adding that he was a “total establishment guy” before.
While Mr. Trump has insisted he does not want to run as an independent, he sounded increasingly frustrated Sunday by the attacks from prominent Republicans, who have courted his money and endorsements in the past but now will not give him the thing he highly values: respect.
In an interview with NBC’s “Meet the Press,” Mr. Trump said he would not mount a sore-loser third-party bid. Even if he did not win the party’s nomination, he said, he would stay out of the race “if I’m treated fairly by the Republicans.”
But he seemed to relish his power to create difficulty for the party. When the host, Chuck Todd, asked him whether he was a Republican or not, Mr. Trump invoked a business metaphor.
“My whole life has been leverage, O.K.?” Mr. Trump said. “I believe in leverage.”
Mr. Trump’s flirtations with presidential runs span decades — and parties. In 1999, he left the Republican Party to become a member of the Reform Party, a creation of Ross Perot, the businessman who ran for president on the party’s ticket in 1996 after an earlier run as an independent in 1992. Mr. Trump’s idea was to be the party’s candidate in 2000, and in a book co-written with his longtime adviser Roger Stone, “The America We Deserve,” he outlined positions that tilted toward the political left.
But Mr. Trump ultimately decided against running, announcing in February 2000 that he found infighting in the Reform Party to be troubling. He then became a Democrat, only to switch his registration to Republican again by 2011, when he considered running against President Obama.
Mr. Trump now describes his past looks at independent runs as merely brief flirtations. He thought about it “twice for a period of 24 hours — nothing serious,” he said. “I devoted no money, no staff, nothing.”
Some political observers have long questioned whether Mr. Trump would be willing to go through the costly effort of a third-party bid, contending with arcane ballot access rules and expensive signature gathering in each state. The departure of Mr. Stone from Mr. Trump’s campaign on Saturday — Mr. Stone said he quit; Mr. Trump said he was fired — cost the real estate developer his only adviser with experience in third-party campaigns. In the 2012 race, which Mr. Trump decided not to enter, Mr. Stone helped Gary Johnson, the former governor of New Mexico, get on the ballot in 48 states as the Libertarian Party’s presidential candidate.
There were signs on Sunday that even Mr. Trump would like to move past his recent controversies. He sought to defend his previous donations to Democrats and liberal positions on health care and taxes, comparing himself to former President Ronald Reagan, a onetime liberal turned conservative icon. “Ronald Reagan was a Democrat,” Mr. Trump told the host of ABC’s “This Week,” George Stephanopoulos. “He liked me a lot and I liked him a lot.”
(The record is unclear on the former statement and mixed on the latter: In his 1987 book “The Art of the Deal,” Mr. Trump grouped Mr. Reagan with former president Jimmy Carter among leaders who were good at winning people over but who “don’t deliver the goods.”)
And he sought to shift the discussion toward his rivals. In several interviews, Mr. Trump said that it was not him but former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida who had most damaged the party’s standing with women. He compared Mr. Bush’s bungled remark about defunding Planned Parenthood — “I’m not sure we need half a billion dollars for women’s health issues” — to Mitt Romney’s gaffes in 2012 about working poor voters. Mr. Bush’s remark “just destroyed his relationship with women,” Mr. Trump said on “This Week.”
Megyn Kelly opened her Fox News program on Monday night by addressing the uproar over Donald J. Trump’s personal attacks on her, her first comments since he made a remark that many interpreted as a reference to her menstrual cycle.
“I certainly will not apologize for doing good journalism, so I’ll continue doing my job without fear or favor,” she told viewers in brief comments on her show, “The Kelly File.”
“This is a tough business,” she added, “and it’s time now to move forward.”
She said she would not respond directly to any of Mr. Trump’s numerous insults and disparaging statements about her.
Mr. Trump and many of his supporters have unleashed a social media assault against Ms. Kelly and Fox News since she asked him pointed questions about his descriptions of women as pigs, dogs and slobs.
In the days since the debate, he has taken to Twitter and appeared on numerous news programs to mock her and question her professionalism — a tactic he often uses against people who find themselves on his bad side.
Mr. Trump showed no signs of backing down on Monday, repeating his criticism of Ms. Kelly’s questioning. “She should really be apologizing to me, if you want to know the truth,” Mr. Trump said on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe."  
The comment that escalated the conflict between them into a roiling political mess — and resulted in condemnation from many of Mr. Trump’s rivals for the Republican presidential nomination — was his description of her as being so angry that “you could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.” Many took that as a reference to her menstruating, an insinuation Mr. Trump has denied.
Mr. Trump spoke with Fox’s chairman, Roger Ailes, about the situation on Monday in a conversation that Mr. Ailes characterized as “blunt but cordial.”
“We discussed our concerns, and I again expressed my confidence in Megyn Kelly,” he said, adding, “And the air has been cleared.”
On Twitter, Mr. Trump wrote that Mr. Ailes “is a great guy & assures me that ‘Trump’ will be treated fairly on @FoxNews. His word is always good!” 
Earlier, Mr. Trump had repeated his criticism of Fox News and Ms. Kelly, along with attacks on Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and the former Silicon Valley executive Carly Fiorina, both of whom are also competing for the Republican presidential nomination. “I just realized that if you listen to Carly Fiorina for more than 10 minutes straight, you develop a massive headache. She has zero chance!” Mr. Trump wrote on Sunday.
While Ms. Kelly declined to criticize Mr. Trump, several of his political opponents continued their barrage on Monday. Mr. Paul, who began Thursday’s debate by attacking Mr. Trump’s integrity, continued his criticism. “Are we going to fix the country through bombast and empty blather?” Mr. Paul asked. 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, seeking to link Mr. Trump to the rest of the Republican field, said Mr. Trump’s language reflected broader thinking among the Republican candidates.
“While what Donald Trump said about Megyn Kelly is outrageous; what the rest of the Republicans are saying about all women is also outrageous,” Mrs. Clinton said.
In vowing to do her job “without fear or favor,” Ms. Kelly used a phrase that was popularized by Adolph S. Ochs, in a declaration of principles for The New York Times after he bought it in 1896. 
LOS ANGELES — Stephen Colbert discussed his plans for his new late-night show for the first time Monday — as well as his restlessness about being off the air and the challenges of breaking from the satirical character he’s played for years.
Mr. Colbert, who will debut as the host of “The Late Show” on Sept. 8, said he has been “twitching” in the nine months since signing off from his Comedy Central show and is desperate to get back on television.
“I want to get in front of the audience and hear the laughter,” he said here at a Television Critics Association press event. “The emotion I have right now, it’s not anxiety over doing the show. It’s anxiety of the eagerness to get onstage.”
Mr. Colbert said he feels liberated about the prospect of interviewing guests without playing the character he embodied on “The Colbert Report.” The number of guests he will interview every week is about to jump from four a week to roughly 15.
“One of the reasons why I most wanted to drop the character is that I felt I had done everything I could do with him other than have my honest interest in my guest,” he said. “Which is almost constant. Now I feel actually more freed up. That was in some ways the most energetic, the most exciting part of the show to me and now I don’t have to hold back at all.”
“Now I can just talk,” he added.
He said his CBS show would have a wide variety of guests, including politicians, actors, intellectuals, writers and sports stars. His first guest will be George Clooney and the first musical guest will be Kendrick Lamar.
Mr. Colbert said he met with his predecessor, David Letterman, about 10 days before Mr. Letterman retired, and asked him what he would have done differently if given the chance. Mr. Letterman said he might have put his desk on the opposite end of the Ed Sullivan theater stage. As a result, Mr. Colbert is doing just that.
The Ed Sullivan Theater has been completely revamped, he said, bringing it closer to its original 1927 state, and it will look more like a Broadway theater than Mr. Letterman’s set. “I find it to be a very intimate space now because we’re sort of acknowledging that we’re in a theater together,” he said.
Mr. Colbert said he was reluctant to participate in the late-night skirmishes that Mr. Letterman had famously battled over the years.
“The idea of war between hosts makes no sense to me,” he said. “It’s not like my success takes away from anybody else. And fighting amongst each other doesn’t sound funny. There’s no joke there, so I’m not interested.”
There’s one thing Mr. Colbert is very interested in: talking about Donald J. Trump.
“Every night before I go to bed, I light a candle and pray that he stays in the race and I also pray that no one puts that candle anywhere near his hair,” he said.
To the Editor:
Re “A Word Too Far? ‘Blood’ Remark Tests the G.O.P.” (front page, Aug. 9):
The problem is not that Donald Trump’s latest comments about the Fox News debate moderator Megyn Kelly violate political correctness (as he claims); it is that they are extraordinarily impolite and vulgar.
They would have always been considered extraordinarily impolite and vulgar, long, long before there was the concept of political correctness.
JOHN SCHRECKER
Waltham, Mass.
To the Editor:
Donald Trump characterizes as political correctness criticism of his deliberately inflammatory rhetoric. This is a bully complaining when people object to his bullying.
The First Amendment protects Mr. Trump’s right to say things that are offensive, unfair and untrue. But it doesn’t obligate anyone to invite him to a political event or a TV show to say those things.
On the contrary, are we to believe that candidates who don’t have the courage or integrity to challenge Mr. Trump will have the fortitude and judgment to lead the country and the world?
GINA HAUSKNECHT
Iowa City
BIRCH RUN, Mich. — Donald J. Trump’s plan to combat the Islamic State? “We go in, we knock the hell out of ’em, we take the oil,” he told Fox News on Tuesday.
How would he handle China, should it keep devaluing its currency? “Well, you have to take strong action,” he said at a news conference here later in the day, right before he took the stage in a hall crammed with about 3,000 people.
And what was his plan to improve race relations, someone asked him a moment later? “You need spirit, esprit de corps, cheerleading, and you need jobs.”
For a man of so many words, Mr. Trump still has relatively little to say about the kinds of policies he would pursue as president.
Even as he seeks to give his presidential campaign the kind of serious agenda befitting a candidate who is leading in the polls, so far the Trump Doctrine is not much more than this: “Trust me.”
After repeated questions from reporters about what specifics he was offering to fix the economy and foreign policy he insists are so badly broken, he finally offered, “I think you’re going to see lots of plans.”
Or maybe we won’t.
“When you’re dealing, and that’s what I am, I’m a dealer,” he said when he called a New York Times reporter after the speech. “You don’t go in with plans. You go in with a certain flexibility. And you sort of wheel and deal.”
Demands for greater clarity on what his priorities in office would be have grown louder as he has risen in the polls. 
At one point in his 50-minute speech on Tuesday night, someone from the crowd shouted, “So how do you fix it?”
For such a loud standing-room-only crowd, the hall in the Birch Run Expo Center here felt oddly quiet at times as Mr. Trump meandered through lines about the country’s need for meaner negotiators, a tougher trade policy and, in a Trump administration, a large role for Carl Icahn, the billionaire investor. 
A little more than a half-hour into the speech, a few people started filing out.
But when he started to drift too much, he would reach for his guaranteed applause lines. 
“Obamacare is a disaster.” 
“You have to build a wall.” 
The place then thundered with approval.
Mr. Trump has tried over the last few days to move past the uproar over his public feud with Fox News and one of its top anchors, Megyn Kelly, since she asked him at the Republican debate last week if his remarks about women as dogs and pigs were appropriate for someone seeking to capture the presidency. In a response that some took as a reference to her menstrual cycle, Mr. Trump said, “You could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever.”
Mr. Trump has denied he meant anything by the comment, other than that Ms. Kelly was obviously agitated.
But his numerous televised interviews since then and his news conference on Monday evening, Mr. Trump did not appear to be in damage control mode at all. 
He does not believe there is any damage to repair.
“I cherish women,” he said, rebutting notions that his comments would hurt him politically. “And I will be great on women’s health issues. Believe me.”
The last few days have been a lot like most others in the Trump campaign. 
He has insulted his Republican rivals on Twitter. “Truly weird Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky reminds me of a spoiled brat without a properly functioning brain. He was terrible at DEBATE!” he wrote. (Mr. Paul held a news conference this week calling Mr. Trump a bully and an “empty suit.”)
He responded to a New York Post columnist who called him a whiner by agreeing not only was he a whiner, but the best whiner that exists.
“I am the most fabulous whiner,” he said on CNN. “I do whine because I want to win. And I’m not happy when I’m not winning. I am a whiner. And I’m a whiner. And I keep whining and whining until I win. And I’m going to win for the country. And I’m going to make our country great again.”
And he again declined to close the door on a third-party presidential run.
“I want to run as a Republican,” Mr. Trump told CNN. “But I do want to keep that door open in case I don’t get treated fairly.” Asked on Tuesday night what he meant by “fairly,” he was characteristically vague. “It’s an instinct,” he said.
It started with Megyn Kelly’s interrogation of Donald J. Trump at Thursday night’s debate on Fox News. Mr. Trump wasted no time responding, in less than presidential terms. The network’s chief executive, Roger E. Ailes, intervened, placating Mr. Trump while also defending his star anchor, Ms. Kelly.
If this sounds like a war between Mr. Trump and Fox News, it is an unconventional one. It is not mutually assured destruction; it is mutually beneficial combat.
With his committed and blatant disregard for the rules of politics and public discourse, Mr. Trump has become a runaway train that no one can stop — or stop watching. “The Apprentice” might be over, but “Trump the Campaign” is a 24-hour reality show that even the most sober-minded media outlets ignore at their own risk.
Mr. Trump has single-handedly beaten back the August news doldrums, and no one is benefiting more from his unhinged outbursts and behavior than Fox News. The network’s telecast of the Republican debate, with Mr. Trump occupying center stage, was the highest-rated presidential primary debate ever. On Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump phoned in to “Fox and Friends,” and on Tuesday night, he sat for a one-on-one interview with Sean Hannity.
Yet as tantalizing as Mr. Trump’s continuing relevance may be for Fox, his improbable candidacy is also more than a little perilous. 
To demonstrate its seriousness about vetting the Republican candidates, the network has to subject Mr. Trump to rigorous questioning, as Ms. Kelly did Thursday night. At the same time, Fox cannot afford to alienate Mr. Trump — or, more important, the network’s core audience. Fox News viewers view the channel as an alternative to a media they see as leaning left. If the network pushes too hard against Mr. Trump, it risks being seen as part of the mainstream media, rather than the antidote to it.
In this sense, Fox is facing the same dilemma as the G.O.P. establishment with respect to the party’s current front-runner.
“The big question mark is how sensitive do Republicans have to be about criticizing Trump or about reining Trump in,” said Jonathan Klein, the former president of CNN. “I don’t think anyone knows. There seems to be a lot of confusion about that, and for good reason.”
The question for Fox News comes down to whether to hold Mr. Trump accountable for the things he has said and done, or whether its viewers would prefer to bask in “Trumpism,” at least while it’s ascendant.
Complicating the matter further for Fox News is a history of enmity between Mr. Trump and Rupert Murdoch, the founder of 21st Century Fox, which owns the network. Most recently, Mr. Murdoch criticized the candidate for mocking Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, for being captured by the enemy during the Vietnam War. “When is Donald Trump going to stop embarrassing his friends, let alone the whole country?” Mr. Murdoch wrote on Twitter.
Fox News has been tough on Republican presidential candidates in the past. At a debate in 2011, the network’s Bret Baier put the entire G.O.P. field on the spot, asking the candidates if they would accept a debt-reduction deal in which they would receive $10 in spending cuts for every $1 in tax increases. (None of the eight candidates said they would.)
During the same campaign, Mr. Baier grilled the Republican front-runner, Mitt Romney, on his Fox show about changing his stance on a wide range of issues, from climate change to gay rights. Mr. Romney later described the interview as “overly aggressive” and “uncalled for.”
But the battle between Mr. Trump and Ms. Kelly has been something else altogether. To begin with, Ms. Kelly was pressing Mr. Trump not on his political positions but on his character, and more specifically his treatment of women.
“You’ve called women you don’t like fat, pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals,” she said during the debate. It seems safe to say that Mr. Trump’s response, in an interview the following night on CNN — that she had “blood coming out of her wherever” when questioning him — brought us into uncharted political waters. (Mr. Trump says his comments were not a reference to menstruation.)
Mr. Trump may still be gaining in the polls — in no small part because of all the attention he is getting from the media — but he has also picked a fight with a formidable opponent in Ms. Kelly.
Even before the debate, Ms. Kelly was the fastest-rising star at the network, twice surpassing the longtime ratings leader, Bill O’Reilly, in the monthly competition for younger viewers. She has been approached by rival networks and could easily find a prominent perch at a less perceptibly partisan outlet. The debate has not only raised her nightly ratings but also added to her growing popularity among a new set of fans. Hillary Rodham Clinton called Ms. Kelly’s performance “incredibly impressive.”
Historically, a compliment from a source like that would have tarnished a Fox News host. “There is always a danger for Fox News when it gets too much praise from the establishment media,” said Tim Graham, the director of media analysis at the Media Research Center, a conservative watchdog group. “It ends up ruffling feathers among the Fox News base.”
But in the context of Mr. Trump’s rise, the rules of engagement may be different. In her broadcast Monday night, Ms. Kelly refused to give in to Mr. Trump’s demand for an apology. In assuming such an aggressive posture toward the Republican front-runner, Ms. Kelly is either expanding the idea of what Fox News can be or bumping up against its ideological constraints.
For now, with such an unusual presidential candidate, it is impossible to know. “I think the Republicans are torn,” Mr. Graham said. “Some of them want interviewers to set fire to Trump’s hair, and others want him to be treated as the potential nominee — don’t destroy him.”
FRANKLIN, Tenn. — The sweet tea was mostly gone, the homemade coffee cakes picked over by the more than 2,000 who showed up here to hear Senator Ted Cruz deliver a blistering indictment of the direction the country is headed in and of the man who is now leading it.
“You know, in 2013, the Obama administration released to the public 104,000 criminal illegal aliens,” Mr. Cruz told the people gathered here in a converted factory turned concert space at midday on Monday. Among them, he said, were “murderers,” “rapists” and “drunk drivers.”
This was a new addition to Mr. Cruz’s stump speech.
Once the most outspoken conservative when it came to illegal immigration — his appeals to voters back in March included pledges to “secure the border” and a joke about sending 90,000 Internal Revenue Service agents to help accomplish that goal — Mr. Cruz has been overshadowed of late, along with most of his rivals, by Donald J. Trump, whose suggestion that Mexico was sending rapists and murderers across the border drew widespread condemnation but also a fervent following in some quarters.
After a speech in Murfreesboro, Tenn., Mr. Cruz was asked about what a local reporter called the “T-word.”
Mr. Cruz heaved a brief sigh, before saying, as he has often, that he appreciated the attention that Mr. Trump had brought to the race, including last week’s debate. But a sliver of frustration slipped out.
This election is not about “a soap opera of personalities,” Mr. Cruz said, his only complaint.
If Mr. Trump has commandeered much of the attention in the Republican primary contest, Mr. Cruz’s seven-day, seven-state swing through the Southeast was a pointed effort to grab whatever limelight he could have to himself. The zigzagging bus tour, which ends Thursday in Tulsa, Okla., with a “This Is Cruz Country” rally, has drawn consistently enthusiastic crowds in the hundreds, and sometimes thousands, as Mr. Cruz tries to establish a foothold in states where a large number of delegates are expected to be up for grabs on March 1, Super Tuesday.
That so-called S.E.C. primary — a reference to the Southeastern Conference of college sports — had Mr. Cruz flattering his audience with tributes to Southern culture and to the region’s growing political importance.
“Arkansas is going to play a critical role,” Mr. Cruz told a crowd outside Republican headquarters on Wednesday in Little Rock — a version of a line he delivered to groups in Mississippi, Tennessee and Alabama. He made sure to note that he was competing earnestly in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, too. “But 10 days later, boom, it’s Super Tuesday,” he said.
Overflow crowds were met with overflowing tables: baskets of biscuits and gravy at Graceworks Church in Chattanooga, Tenn., pulled pork at a fairgrounds in Jackson, Tenn. Brown sugar meatballs kept a waiting crowd content in Murfreesboro while Mr. Cruz detoured to the memorial to Marines killed last month in Chattanooga. And sweet tea flowed at every stop.
“Y’all are making it real hard to talk with those onion rings,” Mr. Cruz told a crowd at a restaurant in Olive Branch, Miss. “Is there any food on earth that isn’t better deep fried?”
Campaigning in the Southeast left Mr. Cruz — who as the first declared candidate briefly had the entire race to himself earlier this year — the only contender plying the highways from South Carolina to Oklahoma.
He adjusted his stump speech, highlighting faith and religion more than usual. At Graceworks Church, where Mr. Cruz delivered his remarks from the altar under a giant cross, he pledged to order a Justice Department investigation into Planned Parenthood and to defend those who he says are unfairly made to break with their religious beliefs over issues like contraception and prayer in public.
“Persecution of religious liberty ends today,” he said to a roar of applause.
In Mississippi, Mr. Cruz was accompanied by Chris McDaniel, the Tea Party state senator who nearly unseated Senator Thad Cochran in a contentious primary last year. Mr. Cruz hopes to turn many of Mr. McDaniel’s voters into Cruz volunteers.
Some in the crowd in Tupelo were clutching “Cruz 2016” signs in one hand and red “Vote McDaniel” signs in the other.
“Prior to this, I was leaning towards Cruz,” said George Bogardus, 72, from nearby Saltillo, Miss., who was also clutching signs supporting both men. “But Mr. McDaniel cemented it.”
In Arkansas, as at other points along the way, Mr. Cruz’s faith-filled message seemed to resonate.
“He’s a Christian, and I’m a true Christian,” said Hazel Bragg, who showed up to hear Mr. Cruz outside the Little Rock party headquarters. “And I believe if he goes God’s way, we can’t go wrong with that.”
HAVEN, Wis. — In response to inflammatory remarks that Donald Trump made about Mexican immigrants two months ago, the P.G.A. of America became the first golf organization to pull a tournament from a Trump property, announcing that the Grand Slam of Golf would not be played this fall at Trump National Golf Club near Los Angeles.
But since then, the P.G.A. of America has not pulled major events scheduled at other Trump golf courses, including the 2017 Senior P.G.A. Championship at Trump’s course outside Washington and the 2022 P.G.A. Championship at a Trump course in Bedminster, N.J.
“Both of those are scheduled,” Pete Bevacqua, the P.G.A.’s chief executive, said Wednesday. “Obviously, everybody in this room is aware of the situation and presidential politics we don’t want to get involved in. We’re not here to talk about presidential politics.”
Bevacqua also did not rule out having the Grand Slam back at Trump National near Los Angeles next year. The P.G.A. Grand Slam is a year-end exhibition in October played among the winners of the four men’s major championships.
“We haven’t made those decisions,” Bevacqua said. “We didn’t want the Grand Slam or any of our events to be compromised by politics or to be any kind of political football.”
Bevacqua added, “We are certainly considering options for the Grand Slam this year and in the future.” 
Bevacqua made his comments at a news conference with other P.G.A. officials on the eve of the P.G.A. Championship. His final remarks came after he was asked to describe his organization’s relationship with the Trump Organization.
“We have a relationship with the Trump Organization as a golf entity; that’s what we’re focused on,” Bevacqua said. “The Trump Organization is certainly a factor in golf; there’s no doubt about that. The Trump Organization is also an employer of P.G.A. of America members — that’s critical.”
Later, Bevacqua added: “We’re monitoring the situation. As we have said publicly, we certainly don’t comment necessarily on presidential politics. We don’t agree with everything that’s been said or done, but we’re monitoring the situation, and we made the one decision about the Grand Slam, and we haven’t made really more decisions than that, other than what’s already previously scheduled.”
ADDRESSING MISCUES Dustin Johnson has spent five years answering questions about what happened in the Whistling Straits bunker he did not know was a bunker at the 2010 P.G.A. Championship. Over time, the queries have taken on a more unsmiling tone as he has contended at several major championships without winning. And for roughly two months, he has been asked about a final-hole three-putt that cost him a chance to win this year’s United States Open.
On the eve of another P.G.A. Championship at Whistling Straits, Johnson serenely summed up his feelings on all three circumstances — collectively and individually.
“I really don’t get too angry about them,” Johnson said in a news conference. “It’s frustrating sometimes, but I try not to let it bother me. I love the game, and at the end of the day, it is just a game. So to get upset and get too worked up about it, I think it’s not worth it.”
Working backward chronologically, Johnson said he was not still kicking himself about three-putting on the 18th hole at Chambers Bay during one of the more dramatic conclusions to a United States Open.
“You go back to the U.S. Open; I don’t think there’s anything else I could have done,” Johnson said.
“Unfortunately, the surfaces we were putting on weren’t up to, you know, weren’t as nice as these,” he added, referring to the putting greens at Whistling Straits this week. “So it was tough to control what was going on. But I controlled everything else so well. It’s just — it’s tough to get it in the hole.
“So no, I don’t really think about that.”
As for not yet winning a major championship, Johnson was asked if he was tired of being asked when he would win one.
“I’m not tired — I mean, it’s obviously, if you’re asking me the question, it means I’m close and I’m playing well in them,” he answered with a smile. “But I’m not tired of it yet. Ask me in five or 10 years; maybe I’ll be tired of it by then.”
Johnson also said he had not often thought about the two-stroke penalty he received for grounding his club in a bunker at the end of the 2010 P.G.A. Championship.
“I don’t really think about it unless someone asks me the question about it,” he said.
But Johnson was aware that the bunker from which he hit that shot is now mostly obscured by a viewing grandstand.
“This year I don’t have to worry about it,” he said, grinning. “Thank you, P.G.A. I appreciate that.”
AN ANSWER ON BUNKERS Kerry Haigh, the P.G.A.’s chief championships officer, answered a question that has come up frequently this week: With more than 1,000 bunkers at Whistling Straits and many that are seemingly out of play, why not declare that the bunkers inside the ropes are bunkers and the bunkers outside the ropes are not? Or why not declare only bunkers that have been raked as bunkers?
Haigh replied: “We have certain occasions where ropes go through half of a bunker, so half of it is raked; half of it will have people walking through it. And what would happen with a bunker outside the ropes, but if somebody were to grab a rake and rake part of a bunker or part of the sand — does that suddenly become a bunker? 
“So obviously there would be so much confusion. We feel very comfortable with having all the bunkers here play as bunkers. They’re built as bunkers, and they have sand in them.”
What leads young European Muslims in the thousands to give up lives in France, Britain or Germany, enlist in the ranks of the movement calling itself the Islamic State, and dedicate themselves to the unlikely aim of establishing a caliphate backed by digital propaganda?
The honest answer is that we don’t know why a 20-something Briton with a degree in computer engineering or a young Frenchman from a Norman village reaches a psychological tipping point.
Zealotry of any kind subsumes the difficulty of individual choices into the exalted collective submission of dedication to a cause. Your mission is set. It is presented as a great one with great rewards. Goodbye, tough calls. Goodbye, loneliness.
Islamic State has been adept in exploiting the alienation felt by many young Muslims, from the “quartiers” of Paris to the back streets of Bradford. It offers to give meaning, whether in this life or the next, to meaningless lives.
The group has benefited from active support by online jihadi preachers and from tacit backing, or at least acquiescence, from imams in some mosques who are inclined, in the words of Prime Minister David Cameron of Britain, to “quietly condone.” It has manipulated anger over America’s wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, over Abu Ghraib and Guantánamo, over Shia ascendancy in the Middle East, over bleak existences on the margins of European society.
Still, the explanations fall short. Plenty of people experience great hardship or prejudice without opting to behead infidels and apostates, practice codified rape on teenage nonbelievers, and pursue the establishment of God’s rule on earth through his chosen caliph and in accordance with Shariah law.
Every effort of Western societies, particularly since 9/11, to curb the metastasizing jihadi ideology that threatens them has failed. Some of the organizations that grew out of that ideology have been hurt. But the ideas behind them, rooted in a violent rejection of modernity (but not all its tools, witness the Islamic State’s slick use of the Internet) and in an extreme, literalist interpretation of certain teachings of Sunni Islam, have proved of unquenchable appeal.
It’s a long way from Yorkshire to Raqqa in eastern Syria, yet some young British Muslims make the trip. Other recruits arrive from Saudi Arabia and Russia, Libya and Australia. The Islamic State has demonstrated very broad outreach. It is clearly tapping into something deep. Perhaps that something is at root a yearning to be released from the burden of freedom.
Western societies have been going ever further in freeing their citizens’ choices — in releasing them from ties of tradition or religion, in allowing people to marry whom they want and divorce as often as they want, have sex with whom they want, die when they want and generally do what they want. There are few, if any, moral boundaries left.
In this context, radical Islam offers salvation, or at least purpose, in the form of a life whose moral parameters are strictly set, whose daily habits are prescribed, whose satisfaction of everyday needs is assured and whose rejection of freedom is unequivocal. By taking away freedom, the Islamic State lifts a psychological weight on its young followers adrift on the margins of European society.
Mark Lilla, in an essay this year in The New York Review of Books on the French novelist Michel Houellebecq’s “Submission” (whose central character, a disaffected literature professor, ultimately chooses to convert to Islam) made this important point:
“The qualities that Houellebecq projects onto Islam are no different from those that the religious right ever since the French Revolution has attributed to premodern Christendom — strong families, moral education, social order, a sense of place, a meaningful death, and, above all, the will to persist as a culture. And he shows a real understanding of those — from the radical nativist on the far right to radical Islamists — who despise the present and dream of stepping back in history to recover what they imagine was lost.”
Lilla concluded that Houellebecq sees France in the grip of “a crisis that was set off two centuries ago when Europeans made a wager on history: that the more they extended human freedom, the happier they would be. For him, that wager has been lost. And so the continent is adrift and susceptible to a much older temptation, to submit to those claiming to speak for God.”
In Europe right now, those speaking most ardently for God tend to be Muslims. Some of them have spoken out bravely against the Islamic State. A majority see the movement as a betrayal of their religion. But the jihadi temptation to escape from freedom into all-answering zealotry is there and will not soon be curbed.
It is interesting that another foe of the West, President Vladimir Putin, attacks its culture from a similar standpoint: as irreligious, decadent and relativist, and intent on globalizing these “subversive” values, often under the cover of democracy promotion, freedom and human rights.
The great victory in 1989 was of freedom. But every triumph stirs a counterforce. The road to Raqqa is the road from freedom’s burden.
DONALD TRUMP’S economic views may not have garnered as much attention as his misogynistic statements, but they are equally unpalatable, evincing a lack of understanding of basic economics that is startling for a billionaire businessman.
While Mr. Trump has not provided specifics much beyond the “Make America Great Again” slogan featured on his often-present baseball cap, strands of Trumponomics have trickled out amid the stream of braggadocio and ad hominem attacks on his critics.
And what bizarre views they are — a curious mélange of populism and hard-right conservatism, inherently contradictory perspectives that often lie far outside the boundaries of accepted economic thought.
Take, for example, what seems to be his “No. 1” issue: trade. Mr. Trump believes the Chinese (and others) have been playing us for fools; using cheap labor, currency manipulation and trade barriers to favor their exports and limit our imports.
In Mr. Trump’s mind (although not in the minds of serious economists), that’s why we’ve lost five million manufacturing jobs since 2000.
The Chinese are certainly protectionists, but a shift in manufacturing jobs was inevitable. For centuries, as countries have developed, the locus of jobs has shifted based on comparative advantage.
Moreover, many of those manufacturing jobs weren’t lost to other countries but to growing efficiency, just as employment in agriculture in the United States has fallen even as output has risen.
No policies could reverse tectonic forces of this magnitude, and in suggesting that there are remedies, Mr. Trump is cynically misleading the American public.
Still worse are his notions for how to bring jobs home, particularly his call for huge tariffs. At various times, he has proposed levies of 25 percent on imports from China and 35 percent on Ford vehicles assembled in Mexico. That would significantly raise prices for Americans and unleash retaliatory moves.
Another tenet of his trade policy would be a weaker dollar, which would discourage imports by making them more expensive and increase the competitiveness of American exports.
But a weaker dollar depends on low American interest rates, and Mr. Trump has separately decried the expansionary monetary policy of the Federal Reserve.
In that criticism, Mr. Trump has been aligned with a flotilla of staunch conservatives who have argued for years that maintaining interest rates near zero is certain to unleash asset bubbles and rampant inflation.
To date, that view has proved utterly wrong. Low interest rates have helped our economic recovery. And not only is inflation nowhere to be seen, but the prices of key barometers, like commodities and energy, are falling.
The list of Mr. Trump’s wrongheaded ideas goes on and on: We shouldn’t increase the minimum wage, which is well below historic levels, after adjustment for inflation. Corporate taxes should be eliminated. Global warming is a fantasy.
By some estimates, Mr. Trump’s proposal to build a wall along the Mexican border would cost billions and his plan to deport 11.5 million undocumented immigrants could cost at least $400 billion over 20 years, while losing the services of millions of workers would significantly dent economic growth.
When challenged on his more outlandish ideas, Mr. Trump retreats into chest thumping, with comments like “you have to let me handle that, O.K.?”
At times, Mr. Trump goes on the attack without actually disagreeing. The Affordable Care Act should be abolished, but his suggested replacement bears considerable resemblance to President Obama’s plan. He has pushed for even greater involvement by government in health care, praising the single-payer models of Canada and Scotland.
I guess a foolish inconsistency can also be the hobgoblin of a big mind.
When it comes to budgets, Mr. Trump’s numbers (were he ever to release any) couldn’t possibly add up.
He wants to build infrastructure, bolster defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs, cut taxes and protect Social Security and Medicare from any trims, all while proclaiming that he’s a fiscal conservative.
In 1999, to address the problem of too much federal debt, Mr. Trump proposed a one-time, 14.25 percent wealth tax on the very rich. Fortunately, the idea never gained traction; a $5.7 trillion tax increase would have plunged the economy into recession, if not depression.
In the Republican debate, Mr. Trump, who has watched four of his companies slide into bankruptcy, said of the nation’s debt mountain: “They need somebody like me to straighten out that mess.”
Confronted recently by one journalist about his policy prescriptions, Mr. Trump replied: “You’ll be happy, believe me. You’ll be happy.” I’ll be happy when he is off the stage.
Donald Trump may be the “post-policy candidate,” but when you strip away the bluster and the outrageous commentary that have defined his campaign to find his occasional, substantive statements about public policy, a surprising fact emerges: Mr. Trump is a moderate Republican.
I realize this sounds like an odd claim, but stay with me for a bit. First you must keep in mind the Republican party context in which Mr. Trump is running.
At a 2011 debate, every Republican candidate for president vowed to reject any deal that exchanged $10 in spending cuts for a dollar in tax increases. Republicans in Congress have flirted with the debt limit and shut down the government in (failed) efforts to push their fiscal prescriptions through a divided government, rather than compromise. Grover Norquist, who has persuaded a large majority of Republicans in Congress to sign a pledge never to raise taxes, has cited a conservative line, “bipartisanship is another name for date rape.”
Mr. Trump is anything but ideologically rigid, and he certainly does not equate deal making with surrender, let alone rape. So far, he hasn’t signed Mr. Norquist’s tax pledge.
“When you’re dealing, and that’s what I am, I’m a dealer,” he told my colleague Jeremy Peters  last week, “you don’t go in with plans. You go in with a certain flexibility. And you sort of wheel and deal.”
Instead of promoting his ideological purity, he notes that policy choices are circumstance-specific. For example, he’s not a priori opposed to single-payer health care. “It works in Canada,” he said at the first Republican presidential debate on Aug. 6. “It works incredibly well in Scotland.” Even in the United States, “it could have worked in a different age,” but it wouldn’t work very well right now, he said. So instead, he’d replace Obamacare with “something terrific,” which would take care of people who can’t afford health insurance.
Mr. Trump’s policy flexibility extends even to the core Republican issue of taxes. He has not proposed a tantalizingly low top income tax rate, like Rand Paul’s 14.5 percent or Ben Carson’s 10 percent. In fact, his vague tax position almost exactly copies Jeb Bush’s.
“You have to simplify this tax code,” Mr. Trump said on Fox News on Tuesday, “and from that point on you can maybe do something else, but before we do anything, simplify it, make it nice and easy for people to understand, and reduce taxes.” Compare this to what Mr. Bush said in May: “Simplifying the code, eliminating as many tax expenditures, tax deductions, tax credits as possible and lowering the rates has got to be a huge priority.”
The main way Mr. Trump stands out from the field on economic policy is leftward: While most Republicans favor free trade, Mr. Trump has called for much higher tariffs on imported goods to protect American industries from competition. He has also criticized his opponents for proposing cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. “I’m gonna make us so rich you don’t have to do those things,” Mr. Trump said in April.
Mr. Trump’s moderation extends to social issues. He says he “absolutely” favors rape and incest exceptions to abortion bans, which Mr. Rubio and Scott Walker oppose. He attacked Mr. Bush for saying the government perhaps need not spend so much on women’s health.
And on foreign policy, Mr. Trump says he would “knock the hell out” of ISIS, but he also highlights his opposition since 2004 to the Iraq war, a year after it started.
Mr. Trump’s signature campaign issue, immigration, is the one where he most clearly seems to stand out as a nonmoderate. The immigration plan he released Sunday calls for abolishing birthright citizenship — a policy change that would require amending the Constitution — and strong-arm tactics to pressure the Mexican government into financing border enforcement.
He has also repeatedly said all illegal immigrants should be deported but that families should not be broken up — an apparent contradiction, since millions of American citizen children have parents who are unauthorized immigrants.
Still, Mr. Trump’s view is not necessarily extreme relative to an electorate that itself manages to hold often contradictory views on immigration.
“It’s a difficult issue to say ‘this is how the public feels,’” said Deborah Schildkraut, a professor of political science at Tufts University who studies public opinion on the issue. “People are very ambivalent.” She noted that some enforcement measures Mr. Trump has championed, such as e-verify and increased border patrol staffing, are very popular, at the same time that pro-immigrant measures like the Dream Act are popular.
Mr. Trump reflects that ambivalence himself. When Dana Bash of CNN asked him last month whether he favored a path to citizenship for unauthorized immigrants, he gave a more flexible answer than you might expect, given his past comments about Mexican rapists. “Right now, no,” he said, but also, “we’ll see, later, down the line, who knows what’s going to happen.” For now, he wants an “expedited” way to offer legal residency (but not citizenship) to the subset of unauthorized immigrants he considers “the good ones.”
“For many Americans, the distinction between immigration writ large and unauthorized or illegal or undocumented immigration is a really key distinction,” said Dan Hopkins, a professor of government at Georgetown University. This may explain why Mr. Trump’s harsh language about illegal immigrants, which has horrified much of the news media, did not seem to harm his standing in the polls — his combination of alarmism and openness on immigration may be incoherent, but a lot of voters are conflicted on the topic, too.
Mr. Trump is offering an unusual mixture of extreme language, moderate policy and rudeness, and so far it’s connecting with Republican voters. Over the next few months, as voters learn more about Mr. Trump’s policy views, we’ll get to see which part of that combination is helping him soar, and whether his policy moderation and flexibility are liabilities.
Mr. Trump’s critique of government differs greatly from that of most conservatives. The conservative argument for small government ordinarily rests on the idea that citizens necessarily know better what to do with their money and their lives than the government does, because the government lacks the local knowledge that individuals have. Under this theory, even a government run by smart people will do lots of stupid, costly things.
Mr. Trump is positing not a general, inherent failure of government but a very specific one. He nearly shouted it at the recent debate: “Our leaders are stupid, our politicians are stupid.” This is the core idea of the Trump campaign, and it does not necessarily imply that government should be smaller. It implies that somebody smart, ideally Mr. Trump, should run the government.
If Republican voters share Mr. Trump’s diagnosis that the main problem with our government is stupid leaders, and if they believe that Mr. Trump is much smarter and wiser than the politicians who have come before him, they may be fully prepared to forgive his apostasies on Medicaid, taxes and everything else. If their real beef is not with our leaders but with big government itself, his support should fade as his policy moderation becomes clear.
Donald J. Trump, whose bid for the Republican presidential nomination has shaken up the race, will participate in a more common civic activity next week: jury duty.
Mr. Trump has been summoned to serve in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, and plans to report there on Monday morning, said Michael Cohen, an executive vice president at the Trump Organization and special counsel to Mr. Trump.
Despite Mr. Trump’s busy campaign schedule — he is set to appear at the Iowa State Fair on Saturday and has pledged  to give fairgoers free rides on his personal helicopter from the parking lot — Mr. Cohen said that his bid for the Republican nomination would not be slowed by whatever time, if any, he might end up sitting on a jury.
“Despite the time that Mr. Trump is required to fulfill this civic obligation, the campaign will continue to go on,” Mr. Cohen said. “He is happy to comply with his civic obligation.”
Mr. Trump was fined $250 this year for failing to appear for jury duty several times in recent years. Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump had not appeared on those earlier occasions because the summonses had been sent to an address on Central Park South where Mr. Trump never lived and he had not received them. The fine has been waived, Mr. Cohen said.
“Mr. Trump’s failure to appear for previous jury requests was the result of the unified court system’s error in the mailing address, and not Mr. Trump’s refusal to uphold his civic duty,” he said. “It is impossible to know if you are being asked to serve when the jury selection documents are sent to someone else’s home.”
DONALD TRUMP gives me his Grumpy Cat look.
I’m sitting in his office in Trump Tower high above Fifth Avenue, next to a wall plastered with framed magazine covers giving the effect of an infinity mirror, his face endlessly multiplying — including an old Playboy with the real estate mogul slyly smiling next to a comely bunny.
“I could put up 40 of those walls,” he says. “I have covers in warehouses. It’s crazy.”
I’m trying to tell the freshly minted pol that Megyn Kelly had the right to ask him a question in the debate on how he talks about women, and that she should be tough on the front-runner.
He’s not buying it. In fact, in his stubborn “I win, you lose” way, he has an assistant come over to hand me a printout of Gabriel Sherman’s New York magazine piece headlined “How Roger Ailes Picked Trump, and Fox News’ Audience, Over Megyn Kelly.”
But the 69-year-old is trying hard not to bare his claws at any women right now. His wife, Melania, and his daughter Ivanka have told him they don’t want him to come across as a misogynist when they don’t see him that way.
“I have many women executives and they are paid at least as much as the men,” he said. “I find women to be amazing.”
The billionaire braggart known for saying unfiltered things is trying to be diplomatic. Sort of.
It has suddenly hit Trump that he’s leading the Republican field in a race where many candidates, including the two joyless presumptive nominees, are sputtering. He’s got the party by the tail — still a punch line but not a joke.
The Wall Street Journal huffed that Trump’s appeal was “attitude, not substance,” and the nascent candidate is still figuring out the pesky little details, like staff and issues, dreaming up his own astringent campaign ads for Instagram on ISIS and China.
The other candidates, he says, “have pollsters; they pay these guys $200,000 a month to tell them, ‘Don’t say this, don’t say that, you use the wrong word, you shouldn’t put a comma here.’ I don’t want any of that. I have a nice staff, but no one tells me what to say. I go by my heart. The combination of heart and brain. When Hillary gets up there she reads and then goes away for three days.”
As he headed off this weekend to see the butter cow in Iowa — “Iowa is very clean. It’s not like a lot of places where you and I would go, like New York City” — Trump is puzzling over a conundrum: How does he curb the merciless heckler side of himself, the side that has won over voters who think he’s a refreshing truth teller, so that he can seem refined enough to win over voters who think he’s crude and cartoonish?
How does he tone it down when he’s proud of his outrageous persona, his fiery wee-hours Twitter arrows and campaign “gusto,” and gratified by the way he can survive dissing John McCain and rating Heidi Klum when that would be a death knell for someone like Scott Walker?
“Sometimes I do go a little bit far,” he allowed, adding, after a moment: “Heidi Klum. Sadly, she’s no longer a 10.”
He could act more refined, he muses over spaghetti and meatballs, with a side of pulled pork, in the Trump Tower restaurant, as fans gawk and wait for selfies, but that would make for a boring lunch.
He relishes giving me a play-by-play of the Kelly and Rosie O’Donnell donnybrooks as though he’s talking about Pacquiao-Mayweather. He beams with pride when he talks about Rush Limbaugh marveling about how much “incoming” he can take.
“I’m a counterpuncher,” he said. “I can’t hit people who don’t hit me. Maybe that’s my weakness. Perry started it. Lindsey Graham started it. This moron Rand Paul just started it because he is mired in 12th place and he’s a U.S. senator.”
He said Rosie was a bully and the only way to beat bullies is to smack them in the nose.
So he doesn’t think of himself as a bully?
He looks hurt. “Oh, no, the opposite,” he said. “In fact, I’ll go a step further. The way to do best with me is to be really nice to me.”
I mention that George Will has written a column demanding that Republican leaders renounce Trump as a cynical opportunist “deranged by egotism.”
“So George Will came to Mar-a-Lago 10 years ago and made a speech,” Trump said. “I refused to go because he’s a boring person.” Trump said he stayed on the patio and had dinner and that offended Will. (Will says he has “other and better reasons for thinking it might not be altogether wise to entrust him with the nation’s nuclear arsenal.”)
I tell Trump that he has transcended the level of narcissism common in a profession full of narcissists. He is, after all, wearing a red tie with a label by “a wonderful guy named Trump,” as he wryly puts it, with his Brioni suit. In the latest Time, Jeffrey Kluger, the author of “The Narcissist Next Door,” said “people at ease inside their skin just don’t behave the way Trump does.”
I ask if he was always like this, boasting that he had the best baby food and the best high chair?
“Honestly, I don’t think people change that much,” Trump said. “I’m a solid, stable person.” Knocking on the wooden restaurant wall, he added: “I am a man of great achievement. I win, Maureen, I always win. Knock on wood. I win. It’s what I do. I beat people. I win.”
No insecurities?
“I don’t know how you would define insecurity as it pertains to me,” he replies.
He does have a germ phobia and carries packs of germicidal disposable wipes. He describes how a man came out of a restaurant bathroom the other night with wet hands wanting to clasp his hand. “So what do I do?” Trump asked. “I don’t eat. That’s O.K.”
I note that many people still think his bid is more runaway Macy’s Thanksgiving Day balloon than a run on meaningful issues.
He says it’s real, noting: “I was with Carl Icahn yesterday and I said, ‘Carl, if I get this thing you are going to represent me on China. Maybe I’ll even give you China and Japan.’ You know, the money they are ripping from us.”
He is trying to be a bit more low key. He says he thought it would be “cool” not to put his name on some of his “Make America Great Again” caps. But it’s hard to imagine Trump implementing impulse control.
What if, I ask him, he fires off a nuclear tweet at Vladimir Putin insulting his pecs or Kim Jong-un calling him a “fat little slob”?
“I’ll only do it for a purpose,” he said. “I have total control. I will get along great with these people. I’m a dealmaker. I’m the best dealmaker there is.”
How will he deal with Carly Fiorina, who is being hailed as the one to slay Trump after she excoriated him, interpreting his blood “wherever” remark as being about Kelly’s period. (I don’t think he meant it that way.)
“Carly has to be a little bit careful,” he warned.
What if he bursts into Trumpian analysis of how Carly and Hillary look?
“Oh, I would never talk about their looks,” he replied primly. He did, however, imitate how his ears felt (“Eeeeeeeeee”) when he hears Carly’s “staccato bing, bing, bing” voice and delivery.
How important are women’s looks to him?
He said he has found looks can hold you back, that “some of the great looking men and women, they’ve never had a problem getting a date, they’ve never had a problem in life, now they get into a world which is a cruel place and they don’t fight as hard.”
I ask Trump if he can at least admit that President Obama was born in this country.
The Grumpy Cat face comes back. “No comment,” he murmurs.
Lightning Round With Donald Trump: Maureen Dowd shares more of his impressions on rivals and boldface names here. 
DES MOINES, Iowa — Hillary Rodham Clinton denounced Jeb Bush and discussed the rise of the Islamic State. Bernie Sanders held forth on Social Security. But at the Iowa State Fair, where a life-size butter cow rules and fairgoers devour stick-impaled delicacies, it is the candidacy of Donald J. Trump that perhaps best captures the air of raucous excess.
Mr. Trump arrived by helicopter, which touched down on the outskirts of the fairgrounds. His campaign later offered children rides as if the chopper were one of the fair’s amusement park attractions. Then, in his dark blue blazer, Mr. Trump strode through the fairgrounds, parting the crowd in his red “Make America Great” baseball hat, waving to the gathered masses along the way.
The mob of news media and fairgoers following Mr. Trump drifted in a unified blob of camera phones, sweat and spilled beer, past the Ultimate Brisket Bomb booth toward the Agriculture Building where the butter cow rests.
As onlookers waited patiently in line for a chance to take a selfie with the butter cow, others crowded around Mr. Trump trying to get a glimpse of the real estate mogul-turned reality TV star and presidential candidate. (Mr. Trump, unable to move through the crowd, had to break his date with the butter-made bovine.)
Mr. Trump currently leads the crowded Republican field in state polls but based on the spectacle that surrounded him here on Saturday, it was hard to decipher whether people swarmed to see a celebrity or their next president.
The answer, it seemed, was a little of both.
Sue Harrington, 60, a factory worker in a “Trump for President” T-shirt — who also knows her butter-cow history (it dates back to 1911 and the same butter is used year after year) — explained why she was supporting Mr. Trump.
“He tells it like it is,” Ms. Harrington said. “A lot of politicians just lie.”
But others just wanted a glimpse at the man whose presence prompted an even more chaotic scene than the one that surrounded Mrs. Clinton earlier in the day.
“Pull the hat off! I want to see the comb over!” one man, holding a 27-ounce super chill beer in the 90-degree heat, yelled at Mr. Trump.
Meghan Gascoigne, 21, a student studying social work, said it was on her “bucket list” to meet Mr. Trump.
“I’d like to see him respect women,” she said. Her friend Cathleen Nelson said she was waiting to see him “definitely, because he’s a celebrity.”
But whether Ms. Gascoigne, Ms. Nelson or any of the other hundreds of people here swarming around Mr. Trump — or any of the other candidates on display for that matter — will actually caucus for them in February is an open question.
The Iowa State Fair each year attracts more than one million visitors who descend on the fairgrounds for fried apple pie, carnival rides and concerts. It also attracts presidential candidates hoping to prove their abilities as retail politicians by talking to voters while partaking in corn dogs and deep-fried nachos.
Mrs. Clinton, who wore a blue gingham blouse, talked to reporters on Saturday alongside Tom Harkin, a popular former senator from the state who recently endorsed Mrs. Clinton’s candidacy. (Mrs. Clinton said she was “deeply honored” by Mr. Harkin’s support. He stayed neutral in the 2008 Democratic presidential primary.)
A brown cow mooed behind Mrs. Clinton as she answered questions about the private email server she used as secretary of state and criticized Mr. Bush, who attended the fair on Friday, about his views on the Iraq war and the rise of the Islamic State. Then, she and a dozen Secret Service agents and staff members headed to get a pork chop on a stick.
All Linda Hopkins wanted was to get Mrs. Clinton to sign her copy of “Hard Choices,” Mrs. Clinton’s memoir of her time at the State Department. She persevered and eventually got past the pack of reporters and security.
Ms. Hopkins, 57, a factory worker, said she had driven 65 miles just to meet the former secretary of state. “I have seven granddaughters, and I hope she’ll make a difference for them,” she said.
But others seemed frustrated that they could not get close to the former first lady, who is trying to connect on an intimate level with Iowans who shunned her last presidential campaign. “I couldn’t hear a darn word she said,” one woman grumbled.
Soon after Mrs. Clinton left the fair for Martha’s Vineyard to attend the 80th birthday party of Vernon E. Jordan Jr., a close friend and confidant of the Clintons, Mr. Sanders arrived at the fairgrounds. Greeted by delirious supporters chanting, “Bernie, Bernie,” Mr. Sanders, who is challenging Mrs. Clinton from the left and attracting large crowds at his campaign events, entered the fair in his own sweaty envelope of reporters, cameramen and supporters, some of whom exchanged high fives after touching Mr. Sanders’s hand.
“This way,” Gwen Ifill, the public television news anchor, called to Mr. Sanders as she directed him to a picnic table for an interview. It was not what one might call an exclusive, as dozens of cameramen watched and recorded their interview, including when she asked if he was the left’s Donald Trump.
Mr. Sanders, who thinks of himself as the substantive diametrical opposite of the celebrity candidate, demurred. But he seemed to have a canned line ready for the occasion.
“I knew I forgot something,” Mr. Sanders said. “I left the helicopter at home.”
After staking his early campaign on caustic and contentious remarks about undocumented immigrants, Donald J. Trump on Sunday outlined his plan to fix the country’s immigration system and deal with people who are in the country illegally.
The position paper, published on Mr. Trump’s website, centered on three principles. The first stated that “a nation without borders is not a nation” — a theme Mr. Trump has made a constant in his stump speeches — and called for a wall to be built along the southern border.
He also repeated his promise to make Mexico pay for the wall and laid out how he would do it: largely through increasing fees on border movement between the United States and Mexico.
“We will not be taken advantage of anymore,” the plan states.
Mr. Trump’s proposal also calls for strengthening the “enforcement arm” of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office, to be paid for by “eliminating tax credit payments to illegal immigrants.”
The third principle says that “any immigration plan must improve jobs, wages and security for all Americans.”
Mr. Trump’s campaign released the plan moments after the candidate appeared in a wide-ranging interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press,” during which he spoke broadly about his plans to deport undocumented immigrants.
“We have to keep the families together, but they have to go,” Mr. Trump said.
When asked how he might accomplish this, especially given the cost, Mr. Trump responded with a question of his own.
“Do you think there’s tremendous cost for the illegals that are in here right now?” Mr. Trump asked. “Do you think there’s tremendous crime being committed by illegals?”
He promised to “expedite it so people can come back in” after the deportation. “The good people can come back,” he said.
The crimes committed by undocumented immigrants have been a focus of Mr. Trump’s early campaign. He has accused Mexico of sending criminals and rapists to the United States, and has often infuriated Latinos with his remarks.
In his formal policy, as he has many times before, Mr. Trump maintains that “Mexico’s leaders have been taking advantage of the United States by using illegal immigration to export the crime and poverty in their own country.”
Other parts of the plan are similar to the proposals of his rivals in the Republican race. He proposed enforcing the nationwide e-verify system, ending birthright citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants and increasing the prevailing wage for the temporary H-1B visas.
While Mr. Trump spent much of the interview reaffirming his stance on illegal immigrants, at times he struggled to answer questions on other issues.
On foreign policy, Mr. Trump indicated that he was staking out most of his early positions without much outside counsel.
“I watch the shows,” Mr. Trump said when asked whom he talked to for military advice. “I mean, I really see a lot of great — you know, when you watch your show and all of the other shows and you have the generals and you have certain people that you like.” He later added that he was a fan of former Ambassador John R. Bolton and retired Col. Jack Jacobs.
When it came to criticizing his Republican rivals, Mr. Trump mentioned only one by name: Jeb Bush.
He went after Mr. Bush repeatedly and unprompted, calling him a “puppet” to donors and arguing that Mr. Bush’s comment regarding federal funding for women’s health was his “47 percent” moment — a comparison to a comment made by Mitt Romney during the 2012 presidential campaign that many said made him appear out of touch with voters.
“He’s made so many flubs, I don’t even understand it,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Bush.
Mr. Trump again was the topic du jour on the Sunday morning political talk shows, even those on which he did not appear.
Two candidates whose profiles have risen in the past week after the first Republican debate — Carly Fiorina and Gov. John Kasich of Ohio — were both asked about Mr. Trump.
Mr. Kasich made no direct comments about Mr. Trump, and even avoided saying his name when answering a question about the real estate mogul’s view of the electorate.
“I want people to know what I’m all about right now, because I think the country needs lifting,” Mr. Kasich said in an interview with CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “I think it needs uniting.”
Mrs. Fiorina, who has been the subject of criticism from Mr. Trump, took a slightly different tone when asked about him on ABC’s “This Week.”
“Honestly, you know, I find it sort of amusing,” Ms. Fiorina said of Mr. Trump’s attacks against her. She claimed not to have spent much time thinking about Mr. Trump, but added that “insults are not helpful to the political process.”
Few names are as evocative as that of the tycoon currently leading the Republican presidential field. Word: Trump. Associations: Trump Tower. “The Apprentice.” Luxury golf course, luxury hotel, luxury life. The hair. The White House?
In Hollis, Queens, about 15 miles east of Trump headquarters on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, where the biggest building called Trump is the nursing pavilion of a hospital, the associations get a scrambling. Trump: not Donald, but Fred. A Trump home: not a glass-and-gilt tower, but a snug two-story.
The seedlings of the Trump real estate empire are here in Hollis, where Fred C. Trump built some of his earliest houses before going on to father the Trump Organization and the future presidential candidate. Along those quiet streets, shaded by tall oak trees and lined with tidy flower beds, modern-day Trump hallmarks — the glitziness, the swankiness — simply do not apply.
“Really? I feel like I won the lottery or something,” Hazel Thomas, 53, said upon learning last week that the elder Mr. Trump had built the compact beige stucco house with maroon trim she has owned since 2002.
On second thought, however, her enthusiasm faltered.
“I’m aware of some of his views,” Ms. Thomas, a registered dietitian who emigrated from Trinidad nearly 40 years ago, said of Donald J. Trump. She laughed. “Some of them are really far-out views.” Another laugh. “I’m a registered Democrat.”
Still, she felt compelled to add: “It’s a beautiful home. It’s really a strong house, it really is, I have to say that about it. He did a wonderful job.”
Over the course of seven decades of erecting houses and high-rises across Brooklyn and Queens, Fred Trump earned a reputation as a meticulous developer, the kind who punctually repainted the ironwork and, to save money, mixed his own disinfectant. Born to German immigrants, he built his first house in Woodhaven, Queens, within two years of graduating from high school, according to “The Trumps: Three Generations That Built an Empire,” by Gwenda Blair.
The next two houses went up in Queens Village. But by 1926, three years after graduation, Mr. Trump had found a neighborhood to match his ambitions in Hollis, a middle-class community rising as fast as developers could put up new houses. Too young to sign checks, he teamed up with his mother, Elizabeth, to form E. Trump & Son.
The classified advertisements of The Brooklyn Daily Eagle, The Queens Leader-Observer and other local newspapers became showcases for his plans. “Why not visit!” one ad for an E. Trump & Son model home shouted, more command than suggestion. “Located in the very best section of Hollis only 5 minutes from the station, having every city convenience, including sewers, concrete street and sidewalks.” The price was listed at $9,950, though the company sold some homes around the same time for as little as $3,990.
William Socolow of Brooklyn was among those who bit, buying one of six Trump homes on 198th Street between 110th and 111th Avenues in July 1926 — the same house Ms. Thomas would buy nearly 80 years later. Like its five neighbors, it had three windows on the first floor facing the street, a dormer window above, an attic and four steps leading to the front door.
Inside were a spacious living room, a dining room with parquet flooring and a kitchen with a breakfast nook. A small garage was in the back.
“It was a nice house to grow up in. Not a mansion, but a nice home,” said Adrienne Wollenberg, 89, Mr. Socolow’s second of three daughters. “It stood us well through the years.”
By the time Constance Robinson-Turner’s family bought the house next door in the 1960s, the neighborhood was beginning to fill with upwardly mobile black families like hers, the kinds of families who still dominate the area today. The names of local real estate barons — Stark, LeFrak, Trump — adorn several buildings there. But Ms. Robinson-Turner did not know about her home’s Trump connection until last week.
“From what I’ve heard, he was someone who was a people’s person, someone who was empowering and uplifting middle-class people,” Ms. Robinson-Turner, a university health care administrator, said of the elder Mr. Trump.
And the younger?
“I hope he’ll remember the legacy of his father,” she said in a tone that suggested he had failed to do so thus far.
Ron Walker, 41, an electrician who lives in a two-story home clad in white siding several blocks from Ms. Robinson-Turner’s, was delighted to learn of his Trump connection. The closest he had come to a Trump affiliation before this, he said, was doing some electrical work at Trump Village, Fred Trump’s middle-income housing development in Coney Island, Brooklyn.
It was “just awesome,” he said of his link to his preferred presidential candidate, “a very smart man” who “knows business and knows how to run things.”
Mr. Walker said he was a registered Democrat, but would be willing to switch parties to vote for Mr. Trump. “You know the looks I get when I’m wearing this?” he said, flourishing a “Trump 2016” T-shirt.
When the real estate business crumbled during the Great Depression, Fred Trump took a brief but profitable detour into food, opening Queens’s first supermarket. Months later, he sold Trump Market to the King Kullen chain and returned to developing.
That building is still a grocery store, but the location of his first house in Woodhaven is unclear. At the time, no one was keeping track.
“He was well known around here, but it’s kind of like, who knew that was going to be important?” Ed Wendell, the president of the Woodhaven Cultural and Historical Society, said. “It’s not really a monumental achievement, opening a supermarket — you know what I mean?”
By the time he died in 1999, Fred Trump had accomplished enough that the organization erected a plaque in his honor at the edge of the store’s parking lot.
“Began building at 15, built this store, founded E. Trump & Son now Trump Organization,” it reads. “Father of ‘The Donald.’ ”
The prospective juror emerged from his stretch limousine at 9:07 a.m. He spoke briefly to the waiting media horde, walked a gantlet of photographers and climbed the steps of State Supreme Court in Lower Manhattan.
After that, jury duty for the man of the moment, Donald J. Trump, proceeded pretty much as it would for anyone else.
Mr. Trump, who took a break from his bid to run the country in order to fulfill a more basic civic obligation on Monday, waited in line with his fellow citizens. He went through the metal detector. He took the elevator to the fourth floor and filed into the Norman Goodman Jury Assembly Room.
Sitting in the front row, Mr. Trump filled out a questionnaire while listening to a motivational video from the state’s chief judge, Jonathan Lippman, on the importance of jury service. He listed his occupation as “real estate.” (“I refuse to say politician,” he explained.)
As he waited to be called to serve on a civil case, Mr. Trump did not look at a cellphone, a tablet, a laptop or even a newspaper. Mostly, he sat, seemingly lost in thought. He chatted occasionally with other jurors.
Calling jury service “an interesting process,” he spoke as if it were less a legal requirement than a charitable act: “People are surprised I agreed to do this,” he said. “I’m not surprised. I think it’s the right thing to do.”
He had previously failed to respond to at least five jury summonses, going back to 2006. He never received them, his lawyer said, because they went to the wrong address.
He got a few minutes of special treatment when he stepped into the hall to make a call. Court officers blocked off the hallway so he could talk in privacy.
Some jurors were dismayed to see Mr. Trump in the flesh.
“I’m surprised he has the nerve to be here amongst New Yorkers,” said Janet Perr, 58, an art director who lives in TriBeCa. “He should go back to the Midwest.”
Others were amused. “It’s humorous: The notion of him as an equal citizen is as comical as our campaign finance system,” said Arelene Geiger, 67, who teaches economics at John Jay College.
Mr. Trump did have defenders among the 178 jurors called to serve on Monday. Dr. Sam Rizk, who lives in a Trump building, shook his hand. “He’s not pretentious in any way,” Dr. Rizk said. “And he does bring up some points we as Americans should look into.”
The morning came and went. No jurors were called. It was a slow week, a clerk explained, with no cases on the calendar.
Lunch hour arrived. Mr. Trump signed autographs. He was asked: How was it going? “Really good,” he said. “Amazing people!” A few hecklers criticized him for his proposal to deport illegal immigrants. Other spectators just wanted to take a picture with a celebrity.
Mr. Trump seemed to relish the crowd. Court officers had told him, he said, that it was the biggest media scrum on the courthouse steps they had seen. “I love records!” he said.
The limo was waiting. Mr. Trump left for a walk-through of his property at 40 Wall Street. On the way back to the courthouse, he listened to Rush Limbaugh’s radio show. “Fantastic show, terrific guy!” he wrote on Twitter.
For the afternoon, he brought a stack of newspapers. With obvious glee, he read an article about himself on The Wall Street Journal’s front page: “Trump Takes a Hard Stand on Immigration.”
He said his strong performance in opinion polls of Republican voters, despite the anger of many women and Latinos, did not surprise him. “People are so tired of incompetence,” he said. “They are tired of politicians.”
He boasted about how some Republican candidates who had denounced him, like former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, were dipping in surveys. Of one of his main rivals, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, he said: “Jeb lacks energy. There is a lot of energy missing.”
As the afternoon wore on, Mr. Trump held forth in the jury room on sundry topics. He extolled the virtues of his late Scottish mother, saying she would never have believed that he would one day lead the Republican field for president. He discussed Tom Brady’s golf game, calling the Patriots’ quarterback a “great guy” and saying “he has a swing like Ernie Els.”
People seated near Mr. Trump learned that he does not like to carry a large ring of keys in his pocket, preferring just a slim key to his apartment. He also favors Tic-Tacs, which, he noted, are made in America.
He bemoaned how American companies move their factories, and profits, abroad. He said he had heard that Nabisco might leave Chicago and set up a factory in Mexico, adding that it would force him to boycott certain cookies. “No more Oreos for Trump,” he said.
At 3:45 p.m., the clerk, Irene Laracuenta, told the jurors, “It’s your lucky day.” Usually, she said, jurors must report for two days even if there are no cases. But because it was August, one day would suffice. All were dismissed, to report back in six years or so.
Mr. Trump got his proof of service and filed out with his fellow citizens, pausing on the steps to give a few quotes to the television reporters.
The limo, and a presidential campaign, awaited.
Donald Trump is dominating the news media and the Internet. He is leading in the polls. But even as journalists scour those surveys for signs of whether his surge will last, an important story with the potential to decide the race is being overlooked.
The Aug. 6 debate marked the beginning of a new and more volatile phase of the contest: a wave of boomlets. The candidates who can surge — and stay at the top — could define the race. It represents a big test for the candidates who led the polls for much of the first half of the year, Jeb Bush and Scott Walker. Already, it’s one Mr. Walker is struggling to pass.
Carly Fiorina has made the largest leap in national polls, and Marco Rubio, Ben Carson and Ted Cruz appear to have made gains as well. But where the story really matters is in Iowa and New Hampshire, and in the so-called invisible primary for elite support. These three contests nearly amount to separate campaigns, with Iowa and New Hampshire something like two brackets in a tournament, and with the invisible primary bestowing the resources and credibility that help candidates reach the finals.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Walker appear to have lost ground in all of them.
Mr. Walker led Iowa polls for most of the last six months, until Mr. Trump seized the lead. Mr. Walker’s position has eroded further there since the debate, with both Mr. Trump and Mr. Carson leading him in the three surveys conducted since. And Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Cruz aren’t far behind Mr. Walker.
The rise of these candidates on the right isn’t too surprising. Mr. Carson and Mrs. Fiorina had widely praised performances in the debate. In previous election cycles, candidates repeatedly rose to the top of the polls on the back of sudden news media attention, only to collapse. The real question is whether these candidates can ultimately shape the outcome of Iowa, by winning the state or by hurting the chances of Mr. Walker.
Mr. Cruz is the most obvious long-term threat to Mr. Walker. Like Mr. Walker, he has a strong pitch to the party’s most conservative voters. If Mr. Cruz surged to the top of the polls in Iowa, he would have the money and the profile to stay there.
But he is not the candidate who has made the biggest gains in Iowa. In fact, he still trails Mr. Walker in every post-debate poll in the state. Instead, that distinction belongs to Mr. Carson and Mrs. Fiorina, who have never held elected office and are not widely well known among Republican voters.
As relatively inexperienced politicians who might be prone to missteps, they don’t seem to have a very good chance of sustaining their position for the next five months. Voters haven’t yet heard detailed cases against them — for instance, Mrs. Fiorina’s checkered record at Hewlett-Packard.
These upstarts could deny Mr. Walker the strong showing in Iowa that he needs to win the nomination. But his odds could also decline if the pressure on his right pushes him to adopt positions that cost him the broad appeal necessary to win the nomination. Mr. Walker has already moved right on ethanol and immigration during the spring, risking his credibility among party leaders and donors, with little benefit in Iowa.
Mr. Walker now seems to feel pressure to move even further right on immigration. He compared his immigration plan to Mr. Trump’s and promised to deal with the “problem” of granting citizenship to anyone born in the United States. This is a tactic that could easily backfire by alienating the electability-minded and moderate donors and party elites who help decide the nomination.
There have been fewer polls of New Hampshire than Iowa, but it is nonetheless clear that John Kasich is now in a tight contest with Mr. Bush for the strongest “not Trump” candidate in the state.
Since he announced his candidacy a month ago, Mr. Kasich has spent $4 million on advertisements in New Hampshire and performed well in the first debate. He has made steady gains as a result, and may already be tied or ahead of Mr. Bush in the state.
Mr. Bush might face a more serious threat from Mr. Kasich than Mr. Walker does from his newest rivals in Iowa. Mr. Kasich is the popular governor of Ohio and, unlike Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Carson, an experienced politician. He has received a series of high-profile endorsements from New Hampshire political figures, like the former senator John E. Sununu and the top adviser and former attorney general Tom Rath. His policy views and his personality are a fit for a state with relatively moderate Republicans and an open primary.
The emergence of Mr. Kasich represents a big challenge for Mr. Bush, who has only an outside chance to compete in Iowa. Not only could Mr. Kasich win the state, but he could also split the relatively moderate wing of the electorate enough to allow a fairly mainstream winner of Iowa, like Mr. Walker or Mr. Rubio, to carry New Hampshire as well.
The Washington Post reported that Mr. Rubio’s debate performance was strong enough to persuade at least some party elites that he’s the right choice. If the support is substantial, it’s important because it’s what he needs to overcome a tough starting position.
Mr. Rubio is acceptable throughout the party, and he is at least as electable as anyone — and perhaps more so, if you consider that his youth and charisma offer a compelling contrast to Mrs. Clinton and that his Cuban ancestry and home state will help him with Hispanic voters and in Florida. It wouldn’t be surprising if the Republican elites who have been on the sidelines so far are hoping for an alternative like him.
But while Mr. Rubio is broadly appealing, he has struggled to become the first choice of many voters and party elites in a deeply factionalized party. He has not made significant gains in either Iowa or New Hampshire, two states where it’s particularly hard for candidates without a natural base. So Mr. Rubio will need to generate enough attention, resources and credibility to build a fairly broad coalition. Elite support is crucial to that.
Flying above it all is Mr. Trump, who leads Iowa and New Hampshire by a wide margin. That’s because he has a demographically and ideologically broad coalition that spans the party’s traditional divides, giving him an edge just about everywhere.
Yet oddly, the breadth of his appeal and his strength reduce his importance in shaping the outcome of the race.
If Mr. Trump were weaker, or if his support were more narrowly concentrated in either New Hampshire or Iowa, he would play a bigger role in shaping the outcome. In that scenario, a non-Trump candidate might win either Iowa or New Hampshire — and he or she would be in much better position than the second-place finisher in the state where Mr. Trump was victorious.
If Mr. Trump were to win both Iowa and New Hampshire, the second-place finishers would advance as if they were winners. Assuming that one or both of the second-place finishers were broadly acceptable, the party would try to coalesce behind one of the two ahead of the winner-take-all contests on March 15.
In the end, Mr. Trump almost certainly won’t win the Republican nomination; the rest of the party will consolidate around anyone else. He can influence the outcome only if his support costs another candidate more than others. But for now, he seems to be harming all candidates fairly equally.
LYNWOOD, Calif. — MANY monsters and ghosts haunt the dreams of Latino children. There is “La Llorona,” who is said to moan for her dead children. And more recently, the Chupacabra, which sucks the blood from farm animals and maybe a boy or a girl if he or she doesn’t behave.
Now we can add a new boogeyman to the repertoire of scary Latino bedtime stories.
His name is The Donald.
Ever since he began his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination with a vicious screed against Mexican immigrants, Donald J. Trump has become a figure of dread and comic-book meanness to the Latino community. He’s a villain in a flaccid pompadour, spewing threats and insults that have filtered down into the bosom of many a Latino family, to be heard by children gathered by the television set or at the dinner table.
In Lynwood, a working-class and mostly Latino suburb of Los Angeles, it isn’t hard to find children who have heard of El Señor Trump.
Hugo, a 7-year-old not much taller than a New York City fireplug, is the son of Mexican immigrants. Too young to understand what Mr. Trump meant when he called immigrants from Mexico “rapists,” Hugo boiled The Donald’s message down to three words: “Mexicans are ugly.”
It made young Hugo “sad” to hear someone call his parents ugly, he said. And if he could meet Mr. Trump, he’d tell him, “Bad luck for you.”
When Mr. Trump takes to a stage and declares Mexican immigrants to be murderers, his rhetorical daggers strike at the collective Latino psyche. We’re offended, we’re wounded and we’re angry.
“I’m afraid someone is going to hurt him,” my 10-year-old daughter pronounced recently. And now it is possible to do so, symbolically speaking — Trump piñatas are selling like hot tamales over the border in Tijuana.
In families like Hugo’s, Mr. Trump’s campaign speaks to a child’s greatest fear: the possibility that he might be separated from his parents. Hugo was born in the United States, but his mother and father came here from Mexico 10 years ago.
“We tell him we don’t have the same papers he does,” Hugo’s father told me. “We have to explain that there are people like Donald Trump and Arpaio” — referring to Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz. — “who are against it.”
Sheriff Arpaio, who joined Mr. Trump at an Arizona rally in July, is famous for his aggressive pursuit of undocumented immigrants. I like to think of him as our Cucuy (a kidnapping boogeyman also known as El Cuco). The Fox News host Bill O’Reilly is El Cadejo (an angry being with sharp canines), and the conservative pundit Ann Coulter is a Llorona screaming “¡Adiós, América!” — the title of her recent anti-Mexico polemic, which refers to the country as “a third world hellhole.”
But it’s The Donald who is on the airwaves the most these days. His unapologetic xenophobia has helped to push his presidential campaign to the top of the fractured Republican field. Like certain politicians in the Weimar Republic, he’s found a largely defenseless group to pick on — who also happen to be reviled by a bankable minority of the electorate.
Even the young hear The Donald’s taunts in their brains.
“He said that Mexican people are bad people, that they want to sell drugs,” a 9-year-old, Alexandra Rubalcava, told me. “He wants to kick out the Mexican people from America and just leave the American people. I think that’s pretty much rude. Every one should be fair, and we should all be treated the right way.”
Alexandra’s father brought her and her two sisters for an excursion to the Plaza México, a Lynwood mall that celebrates Mexican identity with replicas of Olmec sculptures, a statue of Pancho Villa and the facade of a colonial church. I asked Alexandra what was it about the Mexican people that made her proud.
“They work very hard even though they don’t get paid,” she said.
Mr. Rubalcava, a laborer, asked that I not publish his first name. He said he was afraid of getting in trouble with his employer. His daughter has no such fears. She told me that if she could speak to Mr. Trump, she would say: “You’re being unfair to Mexicans. Because what if you were Mexican and someone else was you? And they’re basically kicking you out of the world. How would you feel?”
In just nine short years, Alexandra will be ready to vote. Something tells me she won’t be voting for the Republican slate. Not many Latino people in Lynwood will.
“The thing is, he hasn’t even apologized, even though all these companies canceled their contracts with him,” Arturo, a 27-year-old father and chef, told me, in Spanish. “How could somebody like that think he can be president?”
Others see a deep insecurity at work in Mr. Trump’s attacks.
“We Latinos are becoming more powerful, and he doesn’t like it,” said Irene Huerta, a 24-year-old college student. “While he’s calling us names, more Latinos are going to school and wanting to excel. I know I do.”
In other words, Mr. Trump has put another chip on our shoulders. That’s what happens when you attack an entire people: You add a new chapter to their story of overcoming obstacles. My family and friends will remember the summer of 2015 as the season The Donald entered our lives, via a Telemundo news report, or in links shared on social media.
“My brother showed me the video,” Damaris told me by the merry-go-round at Plaza México. “He’s talking wrong about all the Mexicans.”
A 10-year-old like Damaris watches The Donald descending an escalator in Trump Tower. Or standing at the border in Texas in a white hat that proclaimed “Make America Great Again.” Even if she doesn’t understand what he’s saying, she can feel her parents, her older brother turning angry and looking worried.
At that moment, The Donald has unwittingly taught the girl the same valuable message that’s at the heart of many scary monster tales: Be on guard, because there are people out there who might harm you.
But in the end, fear not, niños. Monsters are really just myth. And you can always make one into a piñata, and beat it until its paper shell breaks and candy falls out.
The outspoken scion of the New York real estate developer Fred C. Trump stood on stage in Washington one day in 1992 and told a mostly female crowd of law enforcement agents to lighten up when it came to sexual harassment.
“Professional hypochondriacs,” the speaker said, were making it hard for “men to be themselves” and were turning “every sexy joke of long ago, every flirtation,” into “sexual harassment,” thus ruining “any kind of playfulness and banter. Where has the laughter gone?” As for boorish behavior, the best way to disarm it was with “humor and gentle sarcasm,” or better yet, that “potent weapon” of a “feminine exterior and a will of steel.”
The aversion to political correctness and the dispensing of unorthodox advice were straight from the playbook of Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate who has made a business, and now the beginnings of a political career, out of over-the-top oratory. But these particular Trumpisms came instead from his older sister, Maryanne Trump Barry.
A senior judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit who was appointed to the bench by Ronald Reagan and promoted by Bill Clinton, Ms. Barry, 78, would perhaps be the ideal person to argue in her brother’s defense as he faces familiar accusations of misogyny, if she would speak publicly.
Instead, Mr. Trump spoke for her, saying he had sought Ms. Barry’s counsel after the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly asked him, in a widely watched debate, about his past remarks on women (“You’ve called women you don’t like ‘fat pigs,’ ‘dogs,’ ‘slobs’ and ‘disgusting animals’ ”). He was widely criticized for insinuating the next day that Ms. Kelly had been menstruating at the time. Mr. Trump denied that he had meant that.
His sister, he said in an interview, was supportive.
“She called me to say she’s very proud,” Mr. Trump said. “She said, ‘Just be yourself.’ Of course, I don’t know if that’s good advice, but she said, ‘Just be yourself and you do well, really well.’ ”
He added that Ms. Barry had a view of gender equality not unlike his own. “My sister has a very unique view on this, and — not so unique,” he said. “She feels that women are very smart and can be very tough and can be at least equal to men, and that women can fight very hard.”
Ms. Barry — whose husband, John J. Barry, was a politically connected New Jersey lawyer who counted Mr. Trump as one of his clients — now lives in a Fifth Avenue apartment in Manhattan overlooking Central Park. She declined to comment for this article.
“I have a sister who just doesn’t want to talk to reporters. Can you believe it?” Mr. Trump said, explaining that he had called his sister and suggested that she speak with an inquiring reporter. “I said: ‘Maybe they mixed us at birth. Maybe one of us got mixed up a little bit. Who knows.’ ”
People close to Ms. Barry say she is decidedly not the mixed-up one in the family.
Although she did not start law school until after her son was in sixth grade, Ms. Barry has had a four-decade career as a prosecutor and federal judge, achieving a measure of celebrity independent of her brother. (“This is not the Trump Princess,” The Chicago Sun-Times wrote in 1989.) Some friends say they did not even know she was part of the famous family.
“There was a story in Time magazine or something, and a couple of the other lawyers come in and go, ‘Did you know Maryanne is a Trump?’ ” said Donald J. Volkert Jr., a former New Jersey Superior Court judge who became a close friend of Ms. Barry’s. “And I said, ‘What’s a trump?’ ”
Ms. Barry earned a reputation as a tough judge with a strong command of her courtroom. In 1989, as a district court judge in Essex County, N.J., she blocked a plea deal that would have freed two county detectives accused of protecting a drug dealer. She forced the case to trial, where the detectives were convicted and received 12- and 15-year jail terms. She presided over the conviction of Louis (Bobby) Manna, the Genovese crime family boss accused of trying to assassinate a rival, John Gotti. And in 1996, she chastised federal prosecutors for trying to deport a former deputy attorney general of Mexico, calling their efforts politically motivated, unconstitutional and “Kafkaesque.”
As an appellate judge for the Third Circuit — with chambers in Newark and jurisdiction over Delaware, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and the United States Virgin Islands — she has forcefully rebuked prosecutors and defense lawyers, but also trial judges she considered inept. And in 2000, still new to the appeals court, she wrote a 40-page unanimous decision calling a New Jersey law banning late-term abortions “unconstitutionally and incurably vague” and saying that it put an “undue burden” on women’s constitutionally protected right to the procedure.
Ms. Barry, who is tall and has a similar, if more abundant, coiffure of blond hair to her brother’s, has made it clear that she never felt in competition with him. She has also said that is a good thing.
“I knew better, even as a child, than to even attempt to compete with Donald,” she told New York magazine for a “power siblings” edition in 2002. “I wouldn’t have been able to win.”
The Trumps grew up in the wealthy Jamaica Estates section of Queens. Ms. Barry is the oldest of five siblings — three men and two women — and was especially close to her mother, Mary. After earning a master’s degree, she became a full-time mother living on Long Island before excelling in law school and as a prosecutor.
In 1982, when she was the highest-ranking woman in the United States attorney’s office in Newark, she married Mr. Barry. The next year, the Reagan administration reached out to Thomas Kean, New Jersey’s Republican governor, seeking his recommendation for a Federal District Court judgeship in the state.
“They wanted a woman, and they asked me if I had a good woman,” Mr. Kean said. He surveyed a sounding board of former New Jersey Supreme Court justices and legal counselors, and, he recalled, “every one of them recommended the same name, Maryanne Barry.”
On all of the documents Ms. Barry prepared for him, Mr. Kean said, she appeared as Maryanne Barry. Only as she was about to be appointed did he find out that she was a sister of Mr. Trump, who, Mr. Kean said, “never made a call recommending his sister.”
But that did not mean Mr. Trump kept entirely clear of the appointment process.
According to a person involved in the effort to appoint Ms. Barry, who discussed the clandestine strategy on the condition of anonymity, Mr. Trump had his lawyer, Roy M. Cohn, a politically connected former counsel to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, lobby Edwin Meese III, then a senior White House aide, to put his sister on the bench.
“I’m no different than any other brother that loves his sister,” Mr. Trump said when asked about Mr. Cohn’s pressure on the Reagan administration. “My sister got the appointment totally on her own merit.”
Ms. Barry herself has given her brother some of the credit for her appointment. “There’s no question Donald helped me get on the bench,” she was quoted as saying in Gwenda Blair’s “The Trumps: Three Generations That Built an Empire.” “I was good, but not that good.”
Newspapers noted at the time that her brother was trying to break into the casino business in Atlantic City and raised the possibility of a conflict of interest.
“We never had a conflict,” Mr. Trump said in the interview. “She would recuse herself. I’d ask her not to, of course, but she would recuse herself.”
Known for chain smoking and driving a Jaguar, Ms. Barry also took pride in her after-work homemaking. “I do the laundry, I do the shopping, I do the dishes,” she told The Chicago Sun-Times in 1989.
Her comments about sexual harassment in 1992 were in character, her brother said.
“She had a case, and she was very angry because a man was being sued by a woman for saying something to the equivalent of, ‘Hi, honey, how ya doing,’ ” he said. “And she thought it was disgraceful” that “he said something that was a little bit cheeky” and his “life was ruined.”
In 1999, Mr. Clinton was having a hard time getting his appointments through the Senate, and he asked Senator Robert G. Torricelli of New Jersey to find a set of judges who could be confirmed. To balance out the Democratic appointments, Mr. Torricelli chose Ms. Barry.
Mr. Torricelli said that Mr. Trump, a frequent donor to his campaigns, had in no way influenced his decision. He said that he had called Mr. Trump, as “a courtesy,” only after making the choice, and that Mr. Trump had been appreciative.
In 2004, seven years before Ms. Barry assumed senior status on the Third Circuit court, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor of the United States Supreme Court presented her with an award, named after Justice O’Connor, that the Seton Hall University School of Law gives to women who excel in law and public service.
With her brother in attendance, Ms. Barry said, “I say to the women out there, remember how difficult it was for women like Justice O’Connor starting out.” She added, “Even though she graduated with top grades, she had to take a job as a legal secretary. Remember how far we have come.”
Republicans thought they had learned a lesson after 2012: Turning off Latino voters ensures defeat in the general election.
But as the disruptive presidential candidacy of Donald J. Trump continues to gain support, his hard line on immigration has driven rivals to match his biting anti-immigrant language and positions long considered extreme. It risks another general election cycle in which Hispanics view the party as unfriendly no matter who the nominee is, Republican strategists warned.
This week, several of Mr. Trump’s Republican rivals, including Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, echoed his call to end automatic citizenship for the American-born children of undocumented immigrants, repealing a constitutional right dating from the Civil War era.
And Mr. Trump’s plan for mass deportations — “They have to go,” he said — which is supported by a sizable minority of Republican voters nationwide, has encouraged rivals to similarly push the edges on immigration.
Senator Ted Cruz of Texas introduced a bill last month named for a woman who was shot to death in San Francisco by an illegal immigrant, a case first highlighted by Mr. Trump. Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana went further, saying mayors of sanctuary cities — where local law enforcement officials decline to cooperate in federal deportations — should be arrested as accomplices when illegal immigrants commit felonies.
National Republican strategists warn that catering to the most hard-line voters on immigration in the nominating contest will hurt the party in the general election, as it did the 2012 nominee, Mitt Romney, who endorsed “self-deportation” for illegal immigrants and attracted historically low Latino support.
“If Republicans want to be competitive in the general election, they have to distance themselves from Trump on both illegal and legal immigration,” said Alfonso Aguilar, an official in George W. Bush’s administration and the executive director of the American Principles Project’s Latino Partnership, a conservative group. “His proposal on birthright citizenship is very insulting to Latinos, and every day, this is the top story on Spanish language media. Right now, if the other candidates don’t respond to Trump, Latinos will buy the argument that Republicans agree with him.”
Demographics suggest Republicans have an even bigger challenge with Latinos in 2016 than in previous elections. The number of Latino voters has been growing rapidly. The population of Latinos eligible to vote by 2016 is expected to increase by 18 percent over 2012 to about 28 million people, more than 11 percent of voters nationwide, according to projections by the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, a nonpartisan organization.
Mr. Walker, who led in Iowa polls for months before being eclipsed recently by Mr. Trump, took a harder anti-immigration position on Monday by seeming to support an end to birthright citizenship during a visit to the Iowa State Fair.
At the same time, Mr. Trump’s hard-line positions, including seizing remittances sent by undocumented workers to Mexico and severely restricting legal immigration, are allowing some rivals to define themselves more clearly in opposition to him.
Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina called Mr. Trump’s plan “gibberish” at the Iowa fair on Monday, saying, “You’re not going to get 11 million people and drive them back out of this country,” he said. “That’s just not practical. That’s going to kill the Republican Party.”
For now, the major Republican candidates who are relative moderates on immigration — Mr. Graham, Jeb Bush, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida — do not have the momentum or the news media attention enjoyed by Mr. Trump, who is not only denouncing illegal immigrants in nativist language but seeking severe limits on legal immigration. And his calls to deport illegal immigrants are resonating with many voters.
“I’m O.K. with that,” said Jessie McInville, a medical technologist from Urbandale, Iowa. “We all have to abide by our laws.” Her husband, Jason, who said he twice voted for Mr. Obama for president, agreed.
Bruce Anderson, a farmer and auctioneer from Orion, Ill., agreed with Mr. Trump’s plans to restrict legal immigration on the ground it has taken jobs from citizens. “All immigration should be shut down in America for a while,” Mr. Anderson said.
Perhaps the most difficult issue for the Republican Party is Mr. Trump’s call to deport not only all illegal immigrants, but also young people who came to this country as children and have received protections though executive actions by Mr. Obama.
“We have to keep the families together, but they have to go,” Mr. Trump said on “Meet the Press” in an interview, broadcast on Sunday, aboard his jet at the Des Moines airport.
It is an issue that other Republicans had tried to duck, focusing on securing the southern border. At the first Republican debate for the bottom seven candidates in the polls, former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas framed the issue typically, saying that only when the border is sealed tight will Washington be “up to a conversation to deal with the millions of people that are here illegally.”
A sizable core of Republicans favors such mass deportations, including 43 percent in a recent Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll. But that position is out of step with three-fourths of Americans — including 76 percent of independents — who believe illegal immigrants should be allowed to stay in the country if certain conditions are met, according to a Pew Research Center survey in June. And a narrow majority of Republicans favor giving undocumented immigrants a path to legal status or citizenship.
Representative Steve King of Iowa, one of Congress’s most hawkish Republicans on immigration, discounted concerns that the issues raised by Mr. Trump would hurt the party’s brand.
“They often say anytime you don’t pander to Hispanics, you cost Republican votes,” he said. “I think Trump gets stronger with this position that says enforce our immigration laws.”
No matter who emerges as the Republican nominee, experts in Hispanic voting say many will remember the harsh anti-immigrant tone of the primaries. That was a lesson top Republican strategists drew from 2012, writing in a self-critical “autopsy” that called on the party to enact comprehensive immigration reform in Congress — or continue being swamped in general elections by the growing Latino vote.
Well before Mr. Trump came along, his current rivals were toughening their immigration stances. Mike Huckabee, who as governor of Arkansas supported a state Dream Act giving in-state college tuition for undocumented students, said in March in Iowa that he wanted to “stem the tide” of people from Mexico who have “heard there’s a bowl of food just across the border.”
Mr. Walker, who in 2013 favored a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, reversed himself this year, telling Fox News, “My view has changed; I’m flat-out saying it.”
Ryan Call, a former chairman of the Colorado Republican Party, noted that Republicans like Senator Cory Gardner won election in the state in 2014 by opening a “meaningful dialogue” with Hispanic voters.
“Trump’s plan and rhetoric takes us in exactly the opposite direction and will undermine much of the progress we have made in reaching out to the growing population of Hispanics and immigrants in Colorado and in other battleground states,” Mr. Call said.
Ricardo Aca knew he could be fired. But he wanted the camera to roll anyway.
Mr. Aca is shown holding his cellphone watching Donald J. Trump call Mexicans who enter the United States rapists, criminals and drug dealers. Then, Mr. Aca calmly tells his story.
A slight 24-year-old Mexican immigrant who graduated from high school and community college in Queens, Mr. Aca works at the Koi SoHo restaurant, which leases space inside the Trump SoHo hotel. He made a short video with a filmmaker friend and posted it on Facebook on Monday, where it attracted more than 300,000 views in 24 hours.
“I was offended because this is not who we are, this is not who I am, this is not anybody I know who is an immigrant,” Mr. Aca said in an interview on Tuesday, wearing his Mexican national team soccer jersey.
Amid the uproar over immigration in the presidential race — marked by Mr. Trump’s inflammatory comments about Mexicans and his plan to build a wall along the border and deport the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country — the video ignited another debate over what it means to be legal in the United States.
“I know I could lose my job for just talking about Trump,” Mr. Aca says in the video, “but it doesn’t make me proud every day to go to work under his name.”
He described himself as an undocumented immigrant who came here at age 14. But in the video he did not say that he has documents that enable him to remain in the country legally. He was part of a wave of immigrants who came to the United States as children who have been granted deportation deferrals and work permits under a 2012 program.
With this legal permit, Mr. Aca has worked as a busboy for two years for the restaurant, which is not owned or operated by the Trump Organization.
In a brief interview in response to Mr. Aca’s video, Mr. Trump, whose immigration stance has helped vault him to the lead among Republican candidates, said: “He’s got a legal work permit. I’ve heard he does a good job. We thought he was an illegal immigrant at first.”
But while Mr. Trump was quick to point out that his companies employ only people with legal work papers, his immigration policy is far less flexible in its definition of legal status. In announcing his immigration plan in a blueprint and in various interviews, he said he opposed the plan that allowed Mr. Aca to stay in the country and work.
For now, Mr. Trump said he would not press Mr. Aca’s employer to punish him, though he added, “I want to check his file.”
Mr. Aca came to New York from Puebla, Mexico, with his 12-year-old sister. His mother had sought legal avenues for the family to enter the United States, applying for visas, he said, but was unsuccessful. She wound up in New York, getting a job sewing in a factory, and in 2005 arranged for her children to cross the border in Arizona.
As a teenager in Bushwick, Brooklyn, Mr. Aca steadily learned English from listening to Britney Spears songs. He graduated from Grover Cleveland High School in Ridgewood, Queens, and received an associate’s degree in photography at LaGuardia Community College.
He works as an assistant in the photography lab there and splits his time working at a Williamsburg sushi restaurant, Cherry Izakaya, as a runner, and at Koi SoHo. In the video, he said he wanted his three jobs to dispel stereotypes that Mexicans are lazy.
Asked why he defined himself as undocumented in the video, Mr. Aca explained his legal uncertainty.
“I’m in the deferred action program, which I have to renew every two years,” he said. “I consider myself an undocumented immigrant still because it could just be taken away from me at any time.”
On Tuesday, the Koi restaurant group demanded that the filmmaker, Chase Whiteside, take down the video, claiming that Mr. Aca had made false and defamatory statements. The video, titled “Meet Ricardo, an undocumented immigrant who works in a Trump Hotel,” was misleading, said Suzanne Chou, a lawyer for Koi Group, because it implied Mr. Aca was working illegally — for a Trump hotel. Koi SoHo, she said, is a “third-party tenant” in the hotel.
“Our company follows the law, and if you are eligible to work at Koi, you can apply,” Ms. Chou said.
But David W. Leopold, a former president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, volunteered on Mr. Whiteside’s behalf to write a letter to the restaurant group in response. He argued that while Mr. Aca was authorized to work, he was still undocumented. He cited information on the website of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services stating that “deferred action does not confer lawful status upon an individual.”
On Monday, shortly after the video was posted, the Koi payroll department called Mr. Aca to bring the renewal of his work permit that he said he had forgotten to submit in December. When he walked into the kitchen, he said that line cooks from Mexico and sushi chefs from Japan told him they were proud of him.
“It’s important to stand up for what I believe in and to be able to defend myself,” Mr. Aca said. “If I do work at Trump SoHo, I have the platform to send this message.”
DES MOINES — On a three-day tour of Iowa after declaring his candidacy for president last month, Scott Walker wore the same rolled-sleeves uniform, told the same sports joke and answered questions with verbatim passages from his announcement speech, whether he was in Davenport, Cedar Rapids or Sioux City.
He was disciplined almost to the point of seeming robotic.
Since then, a bracingly unscripted candidate has upended the Republican race. And no one has suffered more in the Summer of Trump than Mr. Walker, the Wisconsin governor, who has sagged in the polls from early Iowa front-runner to unimpressive single digits.
In a blunt self-critique, Mr. Walker acknowledged on a private conference call with donors on Monday that voters had found him passionless. He announced a reset of his campaign, according to a participant in the call, in which he would take on the Republican establishment to show that, like Donald J. Trump, he, too, strongly opposed the status quo.
Mr. Walker offered as Exhibit A an exchange he had had with a heckler just hours earlier at the Iowa State Fair: “I’m not intimidated by you, sir, or anyone else out there,” he had shouted, before turning to the crowd and saying: “You want someone who’s tested? I’m right here.”
Mr. Walker’s team was so pleased with the tussle, which may wind up in a television ad, that a top campaign aide joked that he would have paid the heckler to show up.
The challenge for Mr. Walker is whether by repositioning himself not only as a slayer of Democrats, but also of his own party’s establishment, he can recapture the momentum he once had in a state that is vital to his strategy for winning the Republican nomination.
Some of that early popularity, which blossomed after a fiery speech Mr. Walker delivered in January in Des Moines, may have been inflated because he was the first candidate to draw the attention of many Republican activists.
Since then, Mr. Walker has committed to visiting all 99 Iowa counties — no better sign that he wants to win the caucuses. At the same time, he did not capitalize on his early lead by blitzing the state with organizers who could have created an infrastructure for him while he was riding high: He has only four paid staff members in Iowa so far, fewer than many of his rivals have.
The cancellation of the midsummer Iowa Straw Poll that had usually been a spur to building field staff seems instead to have allowed the Walker campaign to relax a little. Republican strategists in Iowa who are not aligned with any candidate said Mr. Walker had been running like the heir apparent, not a scrappy up-and-comer.
As Mr. Walker prepared to speak at the state fair, Rep. Steve King of Iowa, observing the crowd assembling around the outdoor Soapbox, took note of what was missing. “I’d have all the supporters here I could pull in,” he said. “I’d have them with Walker T-shirts, I’d have them with signs.”
There was only a smattering of pro-Walker signs and T-shirts.
Despite his Wisconsin record of defeating unions and overcoming a recall election, some Iowa conservatives now find Mr. Walker overly supportive of his own party’s Washington leadership, at least compared with Mr. Trump, who delights in dismissing elected officials collectively as “stupid.”
“Where he’s really messed up with people like me,” said Phil Cavanaugh, a Republican chairman in Wapello County, who was once a Walker supporter, “is that he keeps bringing up his buddy-buddy relationship with establishment people like Paul Ryan.”
(Mr. Ryan, the Wisconsin congressman, is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, who some grass-roots Republicans say has broken with conservative principles.) Mr. Walker seems to have heard this message. On the conference call with donors, he promised to remind voters that he had to take on fellow Republicans to push his agenda through in Wisconsin. And on conservative talk radio and at the state fair this week, he took aim at Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.
“They told us during the last election that if we just elected a Republican Senate, the leadership out there would put a bill to repeal Obamacare on the desk of the president,” Mr. Walker said at the fair. “It’s August; we’re still waiting for that measure.”
The next day, Mr. Walker unveiled a plan to replace the Affordable Care Act, the most detailed by any Republican candidate yet.
From the beginning, Mr. Walker’s strategy to win the Republican nomination was to bridge the sometimes warring establishment and grass-roots factions of his party. But as rank-and-file voters increasingly reject conventional candidates, and party leaders shy from Mr. Walker’s move to the right on social issues like immigration, he might end up satisfying neither.
John Stineman, a Republican strategist in Des Moines who has worked on past presidential campaigns, said Mr. Walker’s decision to pursue voters who admire political outsiders like Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, could ultimately be more problematic than his recent decline in the polls.
“The dip isn’t the problem,” Mr. Stineman said. “It’s that he’s going to follow Trump into the rabbit hole. To try to emulate Trump is likely to be folly. So taking Trump-like positions on things doesn’t seem like a solid long-term bet.”
As Mr. Walker strolled the Iowa fairgrounds for hours, shaking hands while gripping a pork chop and a Summer Shandy ale, his Wisconsin-based campaign manager, Rick Wiley, brushed off the recent reversal in the polls.
“Polls in August are meaningless,” Mr. Wiley said. “It’s about the governor asking for support, and this is what we’re doing today.”
But party insiders noted that no candidate in recent years has lost a polling lead in Iowa and come back to win the caucuses — not John McCain, Michele Bachmann, Newt Gingrich, Rick Perry or Mitt Romney.
“Would I be worried if I was them?” Mr. Stineman said. “Yeah, of course.”
One reason this year may break the mold of past Iowa races is the uncertainty about the staying power of Mr. Trump’s candidacy and of the intense anti-establishment sentiment he has touched off. With 17 Republicans in the race, there are almost too many choices, and voters’ commitments are in flux. Some campaigns are reportedly having difficulty lining up chairmen in all 99 Iowa counties because not enough people have made up their minds.
At the Iowa fair, after speaking from the Soapbox, Mr. Walker took a question about whether he was just too scripted in a race that has become a free-for-all.
“Anybody who saw me up on stage saw that I wasn’t scripted,” he said. “People want to send a message, they want to protest the fact that they’re upset with Republicans even in Washington.
“When people look at our track record, they realize we’ve shown we can shake things up,” he added. “We don’t just talk about it.”
MERRIMACK, N.H. — At a serious and sober town hall meeting here Wednesday night, Jeb Bush dropped statistics like New Year’s Eve confetti.
“A third at best, a third of our kids are college and/or career ready,” Mr. Bush said when asked if the Islamic State or “K-through-12” education posed the bigger threat to the United States. “We spend more per student than any country in the world other than Belgium and Luxembourg.” 
But the real party, complete with a blaring Aerosmith soundtrack for fans while they waited, was just a short drive to the east, where Donald J. Trump was speaking at a school auditorium in Derry. He never saw Mr. Bush or his audience. But he said he could channel how they were probably feeling.
“You know what’s happening to Jeb’s crowd right down the street?” he asked his overflowing crowd. “They’re sleeping.”
That was not quite true, but Mr. Trump’s town hall and news conference were certainly livelier, covering such diverse topics as the model Heidi Klum (“a very nice person”) and the wall he has said he would build on the border with Mexico (“a real wall, not a toy wall like we have now”).
Indeed, a mere 20 or so miles separated them on Wednesday: the bombastic developer from Queens, and the wonky son of a president. 
But the dueling town hall events here by Mr. Trump and Mr. Bush, who are polling at No. 1 and No. 2 in the state’s crucial Republican primary, highlighted just how wide a gulf exists between the two men — in substance, style, experience and temperament.
At Mr. Bush’s forum, roughly 150 voters gathered to hear him speak, politely applauding when he entered. Mr. Trump’s crowd, by contrast, chanted for him and was, at least by Mr. Trump’s estimation, about 2,500 strong. That was an exaggeration — as Mr. Trump later noted, “I’m sort of a bragger” — but not a huge one; there were still several hundred people lined up outside, hoping to get seats, just before the event was set to begin.
In an apt sign of the enthusiasm imbalance, Fox News at one point cut away from Mr. Bush, midsentence, to focus on an empty lectern awaiting Mr. Trump.
After Mr. Trump scheduled his own town hall meeting, his first in the state, for the same time as Mr. Bush’s, the two men did seem to be speaking to, at and past each other from their dueling stages.
Mr. Trump laid into Mr. Bush in his typical panache, offering up red meat to his crowd: “Jeb Bush is a low-energy person,” he said. “For him to get things done is very hard.” Mr. Trump also said he doubted Mr. Bush could win. “I don’t see how he’s electable.”
Mr. Bush, taking a different tack, was measured and thoughtful, even in his attacks on Mr. Trump, choosing to focus on a record that he warned was insufficiently conservative. “I have a proven conservative record, a consistent, proven conservative record when no one was watching,” Mr. Bush said. “Mr. Trump doesn’t have a proven conservative record. He was a Democrat longer in the last decade than he was a Republican.”
Mr. Bush added, “He was for a single-payer system for health care until very recently — not a very conservative point of view.”
On immigration, he said, “Look, the language is pretty vitriolic, for sure, but the hundreds of millions it costs to implement his plans is not a conservative plan.”
It was not supposed to be like this, with Mr. Bush fending off a challenge from a man who, until recently, had been derided by many in the political world as someone who had flirted with a presidential bid but seemed to be after the attention, not the Oval Office.
Aides and operatives had expected Mr. Bush, a 62-year-old from a political dynasty, to emerge as the unofficial candidate to beat. Since declaring his candidacy, he has vacuumed up some of the best political talent — Republican operatives jokingly called his campaign The Death Star — and his “super PAC” far outpaced every other, raising more than $100 million thus far.
But in a twist that almost feels drawn from the reality show drama “The Celebrity Apprentice,” Mr. Trump’s former television program on NBC, it is Mr. Trump, a consummate entertainer with outsize flair but few tangible policy prescriptions, who swept in from stage right and stole the show.
Even on immigration, an issue that has recently dominated the debate on the Republican side, the two men again underscored their differences in style and substance. Mr. Bush, who supports a potential path to legal status for undocumented immigrants, but only after overhauling the existing immigration system, talked about “respect for the rule of law” and shifting to “an economic driver.” 
Unprompted, he also spoke a few words in Spanish before translating: “I’m going to go campaign in Hispanic communities, with arms wide open, focused on a hopeful, optimistic message in places they no longer believe that we care about.”
Mr. Trump plunged into the divisive debate — no prompts necessary — using the inflammatory term “anchor babies” to describe children who are born in the United States to people here illegally. He said he wondered whether the 14th Amendment really granted them citizenship. 
“There’s a very big question as to the anchor babies,” he said.
When a reporter asked him if he knew how offensive some people found that term, he was incredulous. “What else do you want me to say?” he said. “I’ll use the word anchor babies.”
But Mr. Trump’s freewheeling performance left some voters wanting, with many in the crowd still shopping for a candidate. One man, who told Mr. Trump that he went to his website and found the lack of policy descriptions unsatisfying, wanted more detail. He did not get much.
“Are you a member of the press?” Mr. Trump said jokingly.
“I actually think the press wants the policy, the so-called policy positions more than the people, if you want to know the truth,” he added, eliciting some groans from the crowd.
But he reassured the man that whatever his policy is, it will be a first-rate one. 
“When it comes to policy, I’m going to give you wonderful policy positions,” Mr. Trump said.
Durham, N.C. — DONALD J. TRUMP has built much of his lead in the Republican primary race on his tough stance on immigration, the centerpiece of which is the demand that America wall off its border with Mexico to stanch the flow of “rapists” and other undesirables.
Since Mr. Trump bills himself as a hardheaded businessman interested only in effective solutions, I have a border he should strongly consider as a model: the one between North and South Korea, better known as the Demilitarized Zone.
I recently toured the DMZ, and after kicking the tires and a few tank traps on this baby, I don’t think Mr. Trump could do better if he is serious about building a perfect seal along the border.
The DMZ was built in 1953 to separate the combatants in the Korean War. It’s not really a border — technically, it’s an armistice line, because the war has never officially ended — and it is not demilitarized. Rather, it is loaded with concertina wire, high fences, flood lights, cameras, two million land mines and several hundred thousand soldiers on each side of the line. We even have 28,000 American troops on or near the DMZ just in case North Korea suddenly invades. It’s so dangerous I had to sign a waiver absolving the American or South Korean governments if I perished during my visit because of “a hostile enemy act.”
All this makes the DMZ the gold standard of impermeable membranes. Unlike the United States’s leaky southern border, the only living creatures that sneak across the DMZ are the occasional North Korean agents bent on maiming South Korean guards, as occurred just last week, and wildlife that has thrived in the area because it is so hazardous to humans.
The good news for Mr. Trump is that we have a jump-start on building our own DMZ on the 2,000-mile Mexican border. Nearly 700 miles of 18-foot-high pedestrian fencing or vehicle barriers have been built since Sept. 11, 2001, at a cost of $3 million per mile. This might seem expensive, but as a real estate magnate, Mr. Trump knows you have to think big to get results.
Even better, several sections of the border come equipped with razor wire, night-vision cameras and Afghanistan- and Iraq-perfected drones. Plus, we have more than 18,000 Customs and Border Protection officials on patrol there. This isn’t quite the same number that we have in Korea, but it’s double the number of just 10 years ago. In short, Mr. Trump, we are well on our way to a Korea-style border. You would just need to finish the job.
Because, as Mr. Trump has said, the border isn’t perfect. Gaps in our existing wall allow illegal immigrants to sneak through unfenced areas in harsh desert or mountain terrain, where more than 4,000 have died of exposure or thirst over the past 10 years. They don’t have this problem on the gap-free DMZ.
Even more pathetic, that 18-foot fencing has inspired a brisk market in 19-foot ladders. Mr. Trump should look at how the DMZ uses lethal tools to keep anyone from getting too close, and impose a tax on ladder-building materials to help pay for the wall.
One wrinkle he would have to work out is that unlike North and South Korea, we are not currently at war with Mexico. Our last war with our southern neighbor ended in 1848 with a peace treaty that established most of the current boundary.
Another hitch Mr. Trump will appreciate, as a businessman, is that Mexico buys more American products than any country but Canada, is our third-largest foreign oil provider, and reigns as the top tourist destination for Americans. Telling the Mexicans they’re “fired” might therefore not be as consequence-free as saying it to contestants on “The Apprentice.”
Mr. Trump notes in his immigration reform proposal that “A nation without borders is not a nation.” The North Koreans agree, and they have a lot of experience in secure borders. I urge him to examine closely how this has worked out for them.
Before Donald Trump, Republican presidential candidates could deflect tough questions on immigration with vague promises to secure the border and oppose all “amnesty” for illegal immigrants.
Not anymore. Mr. Trump has offered a plan to “take back our country” from what he calls the rapist-murderer-job stealers being exported from Mexico. He is full of ideas. He would expel 11 million immigrants, and their families, and let only “the good ones” back in. He would restrict legal immigration, and impose a national job-verification system so that everyone, citizens too, would need federal permission to work. He would build a 2,000-mile border wall and force Mexicans to pay for it. He would replace the Constitution’s guarantee of citizenship by birth with citizenship by bloodline and pedigree, leaving it to politicians and bureaucrats to decide what to do with millions of stateless children. He would flood the country with immigration agents and — it almost goes without saying — dismantle the economy and shred America’s standing as an immigrant-welcoming nation.
You could say the front-running Mr. Trump has put his opponents in a bind. Or you could say he has given them a gift: the opportunity to be specific in return about what they would do to fix the immigration mess. And to be forthright in rejecting his despicable proposals. Because his plan is so naked — in its scapegoating of immigrants, its barely subtextual racism, its immense cruelty in seeking to reduce millions of people to poverty and hopelessness — it gives his opponents the chance for a very clear moral decision. They can stand up for better values, and against the collective punishment of millions of innocent Americans-in-waiting.
But as Mr. Trump swells in the polls, his diminished opponents are following in his wake, like remoras on a shark. Several have shuffled onto the anti-birthright-citizenship bus, including Rick Santorum, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, Ben Carson and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey. Even Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who once fought for smart bipartisan immigration reform, wants to repeal birthright citizenship. As does Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana, a birthright citizen himself. As for Mr. Trump’s other restrictionist proposals, several are firmly lodged again in the playbook of a Republican Party that briefly tried to reform itself after the Mitt Romney debacle. Some candidates are even willing to try to trump Mr. Trump in xenophobia: Mr. Carson is talking about using armed military drones at the border. That’s right — bombing Arizona.
Jeb Bush and Senator Marco Rubio of Florida understand immigration issues deeply and presumably want the Latino vote and are well aware of the dangers of having their party hijacked by far-right ideas. They should be opposing Mr. Trump at every turn. But in the face of Mr. Trump’s success, their objections are mild, and oddly muted. The danger is that when the campaign is over, no matter what becomes of Mr. Trump’s candidacy, he will have further poisoned the debate with his noxious positions, normalized an extremism whose toxicity is dulled by familiarity and is validated by a feckless party. He has emboldened the fringe lawmakers whose “hell no” on any positive immigration legislation has stymied reform for years.
The solutions are well known. Americans strongly support an earned path to citizenship for immigrants, strengthening families and industries and giving strivers the chance to pay this country back. Even as reform festers at the federal level, forward-thinking cities like New York and states like California have taken assertive steps, offering official documents like driver’s licenses and identity cards, and tuition breaks and other means of inclusion, to offer immigrants opportunities, all for the common good.
Ideas like these are realistic, practical and have the added benefit of being morally defensible. It has long been a hard job to keep the highly combustible immigration debate on the right side of sanity and reality. That progress is now being undone before our eyes in the presidential campaign, courtesy of the faux-populist billionaire who says immigrants are the reason this country is weak and frightened and going to hell.
RIO DE JANEIRO — The Peruvian Nobel laureate Mario Vargas Llosa calls Donald J. Trump a “racist imbecile.” In Mexico, people are gleefully bashing Trump piñatas after his caustic remarks about Latino immigrants in the United States. In Guatemala, a liquor company is putting up posters of Mr. Trump using a term that, when translated charitably, describes him as a jackass.
Then there is Brazil, where Mr. Trump’s new 171-room stamp on the Rio de Janeiro skyline has generated so little uproar that his business partner feels perfectly comfortable trumpeting his contentious stance on immigration.
“I’m a Latin and I have to say, I didn’t get offended at all with his comments,” said Paulo Figueiredo Filho, 33, a Brazilian real estate mogul and self-described conservative libertarian who is building the lavish new Trump Hotel here.
“I spend a lot of time in the U.S.,” Mr. Figueiredo added, “and I have seen a lot of illegal immigrants that are causing problems, causing trouble in the country, and I actually agree with him.”
The relative paucity of tension around Mr. Trump’s lavish new hotel venture here — in contrast to reactions elsewhere in the Americas, where some media giants and other companies have cut ties to Mr. Trump — may reflect how Brazil is changing, and how it is not.
Rio’s skyline, marred by the skeletons of various high-profile hotel projects that have been abandoned, serves as a constant testament to the souring of Brazil’s economy, making just about any big real estate venture with a chance of being completed an inviting prospect as the city gears up to hold the 2016 Summer Olympics.
“It’s a privilege to have a Trump property in our city,” said Alfredo Lopes, the president of the city’s hotel association and the Rio Convention and Visitors Bureau, emphasizing that he had not paid much attention to the controversies surrounding Mr. Trump in the United States. “This project is a gift to Rio that will serve a very exclusive segment of the market.”
But there is a cultural dynamic at work as well. Scholars attribute some of the indifference here about Mr. Trump’s immigration remarks to an entrenched tradition in Portuguese-speaking Brazil of seeing the country as separate from its Spanish-speaking neighbors in Latin America, despite energetic diplomatic efforts in recent decades to forge stronger ties in the region.
Many “Brazilians are not offended by Trump’s remarks concerning Latinos because they don’t think his nasty remarks” refer to them, said Maxine Margolis, an anthropologist at the University of Florida who is a leading authority on Brazilian emigration to the United States. “He is talking about a population they see as ‘the other.’ ”
Estimates vary widely on the number of Brazilian immigrants in the United States because most of them are thought to be there illegally, but Dr. Margolis placed the number at around 900,000 to one million, close to the figures used by Brazil’s Foreign Affairs Ministry.
While some Brazilian immigrants returned to Brazil in the years after the 2008 financial crisis, a period when Brazil’s economy was booming, Dr. Margolis said it now appeared that Brazilians were moving yet again to the United States as Brazil’s economy remains mired in a multiyear slowdown.
Of course, Mr. Trump and his new landmark have their fair share of detractors. In a city long defined by its enormous gap between rich and poor, not everyone agrees that Rio needs yet another luxury hotel, much less one planning to charge $500 a night for rooms with floors made of imported Turkish marble.
Adding to the extravagance, the 13-story hotel, which is designed with jagged, terraced suites facing the Atlantic, will feature an infinity pool made of glass suspended above a nightclub with capacity for 600 people.
“We live in a city that was the biggest slave port in human history, producing a legacy of inequality that is pervasive across Rio,” said Theresa Williamson, an urban planner and director of RioOnWatch, an organization reporting on the city’s favelas, the relatively poor urban areas that largely emerged as squatter settlements.
“Instead of focusing on ways of alleviating that inequality, there’s a push to use the Olympics to benefit the most privileged sectors of society,” Ms. Williamson added. “The Trump Hotel is just the latest fixture in a city where bolstering the playgrounds for the rich is a priority for the authorities.”
Still, criticism of the $120 million hotel, which is scheduled to open before the Olympics, remains subdued in Rio. Despite the economic headwinds in the country, a spokeswoman for the Trump Organization said the group remained bullish about doing business in Brazil. And even as Mr. Trump faces criticism in various parts of the region, she said, “There is tremendous support for Trump and the brand across Latin America.”
Mr. Trump also recently expressed optimism about Brazil, even though the construction of another of his organization’s projects in Rio, a complex of five office towers in the gritty area around the port, has been delayed, with no public completion date.
“I love Brazilians, especially Brazilian women, which are absolutely incredible,” Mr. Trump said in a 2014 interview with Veja, a Brazilian magazine. Mr. Trump boasted that he had something to teach the Brazilian people, emphasizing that his lessons for Brazilians would involve providing an example of entrepreneurism and good service.
“I love teaching,” he said. “I’m a great teacher.”
When asked in the same interview if he had met Dilma Rousseff, Mr. Trump, apparently unaware that she is both a woman and the nation’s president, responded: “No. Who is he?”
Being less than reverential toward the Brazilian president, whether unintentional or not, did not seem to fan the flames, either. After all, dismissive views about Ms. Rousseff are fashionable in Brazil these days, as she grapples with approval ratings in the single digits. Huge street protests have called for her impeachment over the country’s sagging fortunes and a colossal graft scandal at the national oil company.
Mr. Figueiredo, the developer who will own the Trump hotel and have his American partners operate it, counts himself among those who loathe Brazil’s leftist president. He is a grandson of João Figueiredo, the last autocrat of a 21-year military dictatorship that ended in economic disarray in 1985.
While it might be expected for a business partner of Mr. Trump’s to promote their venture, Mr. Figueiredo goes beyond simply defending a project, as backers of a Trump tower under construction in neighboring Uruguay have done. Now Mr. Figueiredo says he wants to limit the government’s sway in the economy (though Barra da Tijuca, the beachfront district where he lives and is building the hotel, benefits from an onslaught of public transportation projects).
When Mr. Figueiredo’s blunt-spoken grandfather was stepping down in 1985, he remarked that he preferred the smell of horses to people. When asked what he wanted Brazilians to think of him, the four-star general replied, “I want them to forget me.”
But the frustrations with Brazil’s government have given new momentum to right-wing groups, and some in Brazil’s antigovernment protests are now openly calling for a return to military rule, a subject that was until recently politically taboo. Mr. Figueiredo exudes pride when talking about his grandfather, and he heaps praise on Mr. Trump, a figure under fire elsewhere in the region.
“He’s one of the most recognized businessmen in the world, and if anything, we’re getting more exposure,” Mr. Figueiredo said. “I don’t think anyone is going to decide not to stay in a fantastic hotel just because of his political views.”
LYNWOOD, California — Son muchos los monstruos y fantasmas que acosan los sueños de los niños latinos. Esta “La Llorona”, quien se rumora lamenta la muerte de sus hijos. Más recientemente, apareció el Chupacabras, que chupa la sangre de animales, y quizá de algún niño o niña si no se porta bien.
Ahora, podemos agregar un nuevo “coco” a las historias de horror latinas.
Su nombre es El Donald.
Desde que empezó su campaña para ser candidato republicano a la presidencia con una diatriba despiadada contra los inmigrantes mexicanos, Donald J. Trump se ha convertido en una figura de terror y maldad tipo comic entre la comunidad latina. Es un villano con un copete flácido, que lanza amenazas e insultos que han llegado hasta el seno de las familias latinas y hasta a los oídos de los niños que lo escuchan mientras cenan frente al televisor.
En Lynwood, un suburbio de clase trabajadora y en su mayoría latino de Los Ángeles, no es difícil encontrar a niños que saben quién es El Señor Trump.
Hugo, un niño de 7 años, es hijo de inmigrantes mexicanos. Es demasiado joven para entender lo que Trump quiso decir cuando llamó “violadores” a los migrantes de México, pero Hugo redujo el mensaje “del Donald” a cuatro palabras: “Los mexicanos son feos”.
El pequeño Hugo dijo que se entristeció al oír que alguien decía que sus padres eran feos. Y si pudiera hablar con Trump, le diría: “Bad luck for you” (mala suerte para usted).
Cuando Trump sube a un escenario y declara que los inmigrantes mexicanos son asesinos, sus dardos retóricos golpean en la psique colectiva de los latinos. Nos ofende, nos lastima y nos enoja.
“Temo que alguien vaya a lastimarlo”, me dijo mi hija de diez años recientemente. Y ahora es posible hacerlo, aunque simbólicamente: las piñatas de Trump se están vendiendo como pan caliente en toda la frontera con Tijuana.
En familias como las de Hugo, la campaña de Trump le habla al mayor temor de un niño: la posibilidad de que lo separen de sus padres. Hugo nació en Estados Unidos, pero sus padres vinieron desde México hace 10 años.
“Le decimos que no tenemos los mismos papeles que él”, me dijo el padre de Hugo. “Tenemos que explicarle que hay gente como Donald Trump y Arpaio”, refiriéndose al alguacil Joe Arpaio del Condado de Maricopa, Arizona, “que están en contra de que los tengamos”.
Arpaio, quien acompañó a Trump en un evento en Arizona este julio, es famoso por su persecución agresiva de inmigrantes indocumentados. Me gusta imaginarlo como nuestro Cucuy (un “coco” secuestrador también conocido como El Cuco). Bill O’Reilly, presentador de Fox News, es el Cadejo (un ser furioso con colmillos afilados), y la comentarista conservadora Ann Coulter es una Llorona que grita “¡Adiós, América!”, el título de su reciente ataque contra México, en el que se refiere al país como un “infierno del tercer mundo”.
Pero en estos días, es El Donald quien tiene más presencia en televisión. Su xenofobia ha ayudado a impulsar su campaña presidencial hasta el primer lugar del fracturado campo republicano. Al igual que algunos políticos en la República de Weimar, Trump ha encontrado a un grupo muy indefenso a quien acosar y que además ya es denigrado por una minoría rentable del electorado.
Incluso los jóvenes oyen los insultos del Donald.
“Dijo que los mexicanos son malos, que quieren vender drogas”, me dijo Alexandra Rubalcava, una niña de 9 años. “Quiere echar a los mexicanos de Estados Unidos y sólo dejar a los estadounidenses. Creo que es muy grosero. Todos deberían ser justos y tratar bien a todos”.
El padre de Alexandra la llevó a ella y a sus dos hermanas a una excursión en Plaza México, un centro comercial en Lynwood que celebra la identidad mexicana con réplicas de esculturas olmecas, una estatua de Pancho Villa y una fachada de una iglesia colonial. Le pregunté a Alexandra qué la enorgullecía de los mexicanos.
“Son muy trabajadores, incluso aunque no les paguen”, me respondió.
Rubalcava, obrero, me pidió que no publicara su nombre por temor a meterse en problemas con su empleador. Su hija no tiene esos temores. Ella me dijo que si pudiera hablar con Trump, le diría: “Está siendo injusto con los mexicanos. ¿Qué tal que usted fuera mexicano y alguien más fuera usted? Y básicamente lo están echando del mundo. ¿Cómo se sentiría?”
En tan sólo nueve años Alexandra podrá votar. Algo me dice que no votaría por los republicanos. No muchos latinos en Lynwood lo harían.
“Es que ni siquiera se ha disculpado, incluso si todas estas compañías han cancelado sus contratos con él”, me dijo Arturo, un padre y chef de 27 años. “¿Cómo puede alguien como él pensar que puede ser presidente?”
Otros consideran que los ataques de Trump revelan una gran inseguridad.
“Nosotros, los latinos, nos estamos volviendo más poderosos y a él no le gusta eso”, dijo Irene Huerta, una estudiante universitaria de 24 años. “Mientras él nos insulta, más latinos están yendo a la escuela y quieren sobresalir. Eso es lo que yo quiero.”
En otras palabras, Trump está buscando pelea con nosotros. Y eso es lo que sucede cuando atacas a todo un pueblo: añades un nuevo capítulo a su historia de cómo vencen los obstáculos. Mi familia y amigos recordarán el verano de 2015 como la temporada en la que El Donald entró a nuestras vidas a través del noticiero de Telemundo o a través de las redes sociales.
“Mi hermano me mostró el video”, me dijo Damaris cerca del carrusel en Plaza México. “Está hablando mal de todos los mexicanos”.
Una niña de 10 años como Damaris puede observar al Donald bajando una escalera eléctrica en Trump Tower. O parado en la frontera de Texas con un sombrero blanco que proclama “Make America Great Again”. Incluso si no entiende lo que está diciendo, sí puede percibir la rabia y la preocupación de sus padres y su hermano mayor.
En ese momento, sin querer, El Donald le ha enseñado a la niña el mismo mensaje valioso que está en el corazón de muchos cuentos de monstruos: Mantente alerta porque hay gente que puede hacerte daño.
Pero niños, no hay nada que temer. Los monstruos son sólo un mito. Y siempre es posible convertirlos en una piñata y golpearlos hasta que su coraza de papel se rompa y caigan dulces.
Sigue a NYT América en Facebook y Twitter para leer más artículos de The New York Times en español.
KEENE, N.H. — After weeks of parrying Donald J. Trump’s derisive thrusts with elliptical, indirect and sparing responses, Jeb Bush aggressively attacked Mr. Trump here on Thursday, portraying him as a Democratic-leaning poseur in the Republican field and expressing confidence that voters would come to the same conclusion.
Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor who has been both eclipsed by Mr. Trump and mocked by him repeatedly, heatedly portrayed Mr. Trump as someone with a record that should disqualify him as a genuine conservative.
“There’s a big difference between Donald Trump and me,” Mr. Bush told reporters after a forum here. “I’m a proven conservative with a record. He isn’t.”
Many Republicans had hoped that Mr. Trump, given his history of incendiary comments, would either fade or implode as a presidential candidate. But Mr. Bush, who entered the race with every expectation of becoming the front-runner, on Thursday signaled he was not content to wait.
Mr. Bush, contrasting his own background with Mr. Trump’s, offered a machine-gun burst’s worth of differences.
“I cut taxes every year; he’s proposed the largest tax increase in mankind’s history, not just our own country’s history,” Mr. Bush said. “I have been consistently pro-life; he until recently was for partial-birth abortion. I’ve never met a person that actually thought that was a good idea. I believe we need to reform our health care system to make sure we stop the suppression of wages and allow people to have access to insurance; he’s for a single-payer system.”
“He actually advocates these things,” Mr. Bush continued, before adding passionately: “He’s been a Democrat longer than a Republican.”
Mr. Bush’s attacks seemed to mark a new, more combative phase of his campaign. 
Earlier, at a morning stop at a restaurant in New London, N.H., Mr. Bush also invoked the names of two other Republican rivals as he waded into the debate over birthright citizenship and immigration.
In response to a question about the 14th Amendment, which allows children born in the United States to become citizens regardless of the legal status of their parents, Mr. Bush said, “The courts have ruled that it’s part of the 14th Amendment of our Constitution and my belief is that it ought to stay that way, that this is part of our noble heritage.”
Then he mentioned Senators Marco Rubio, whose parents immigrated to the United States from Cuba, and Ted Cruz, who was born in Canada to an American mother and a Cuban-born father, to buttress his point.
“Now if people are here legally, they have a visa, and they have a child who’s born here, I think that they ought to be American citizens,” he said. “People like Marco Rubio, by the way, that’s how he came. You know, so to suggest that we make it impossible for a talented person like that not to be a candidate for president — or Ted Cruz. I mean, I think we’re getting a little overboard here, and we’re listening to the emotion rather than to the reality of this.”
Mr. Bush appeared to be conflating criticism of Mr. Rubio, who has said he is open to exploring ways to prevent people from exploiting birthright citizenship by coming to the United States to have children, with early questions about whether Mr. Cruz qualified as a “natural born citizen,” as the Constitution says a president must be.
Mr. Bush’s more scrappy tone was a welcome relief to some of his fans. After his remarks in New London — where he stressed that he was “a doer” and “not a talker” — Nancy Anderson, a retiree, approached him with a plea.
“Take footage from this meeting, and make it into advertising so people know who you really are,” Ms. Anderson said, clutching Mr. Bush’s arm. “Seriously.”
Afterward, she explained her concerns: “He comes across without the fire in his belly,” she said. “We hear Donald Trump making all these statements and we hear different people saying things, and he comes across as just kind of a nice guy.”
Ms. Anderson need not have worried. By his next stop, Mr. Bush was in full-on attack mode.
“Look, there should be a little more focus on solving the problems and talking about ideas that matter, rather than just kind of coming in like a tidal wave and saying things that are just outrageous and don’t make sense,” he said. “All of this stuff is to appeal to people’s anger and their angst, rather than have solutions to the problems.”
He concluded by dismissing Mr. Trump as the flavor of the summer. “Let’s go talk about this two months from now, three months from now,” Mr. Bush said. “I think what you’ll find is you’ll have forgotten what exists in August, whatever it is — 20th.”
This article was initially published as a letter to subscribers of The Upshot’s newsletter. You can sign up for the email here to get this and all of the best of The Upshot.
An article this week by Nate Cohn about the state of the G.O.P. field suggested that the most important story of the race “is not about Donald Trump.” Mr. Trump would probably beg to differ, and many of our readers might agree.
Linda, Spokane, Wash. 
Contrary to this author’s opinion, I believe that Donald Trump is the story and he will continue to be the story. Trump has a very good chance of winning the Republican nomination and the presidency. He is the smart businessman and strong leader that can turn our country around and make America great again! The financial elite and owned political hacks still do not fully understand how fed up the people are with their lies and betrayals. They will discover that there is a tsunami of support for Trump, and those career politicians who have not listened to their constituents will be voted out



David, Monticello, NY
As a Democrat, I look on happily at these goings-on. There is no way on Earth or anywhere else for that matter that Donald Trump is going to be elected president. So yeah, you guys, go ahead: Nominate him. The last thing we need is any candidate who would undo the good things Obama has done, such as health care and the Iran agreement. Go, Donald!
Progressivepapa, Reno, Nevada
The most important story is that with the possible exception of Kasich, none of this crew is presidential timber. They are facets of the same right-wing-pandering monolith. Trump is playing off that fact by essentially spoofing his fellow candidates, egging them on to match (or refute at their peril) his outlandish comments and doing what he does best: build his brand. He’ll bow out laughing all the way to the bank (with someone else’s money).

Look Ahead, Washington
If we are going to have endless political campaigns, it’s too bad they can’t be about the real issues that, to quote Donald Trump’s baseball hat, “make America great again.”
Health, education and income would be an excellent place to focus the campaign, but it won’t happen in today’s fractionalized electorate. And the debate on climate change, energy efficiency and infrastructure as issues critical to our future has been frankly embarrassing.

Tim, Seattle 
I’m much more frightened of Scott Walker than I am of Donald Trump.
Thomas Battiato, Singapore
As a liberal, I am trying to understand the rationale of all the pundits who insist that Trump cannot and will not win the Republican nomination. Do they believe that the Republican electorate is far too wise to vote for someone like Trump? Seriously?
Give me a break. Of course they would vote for him.
For years, an anonymous producer of “Bad Lip Reading,” a popular series of dubbed-over YouTube videos, has added absurdist humor to our already fairly absurd political process.
The latest video, of the first prime time Republican presidential debate, put words in the mouths of the candidates, transforming them from showboaters to nincompoops who talked about tuna-melt indigestion (Donald Trump), swallowing goldfish (Senator Ted Cruz), and completing a puzzle on stage (Ben Carson). The video has been watched more than 4 million times.
In an email interview, the Los Angeles-based Bad Lip Reader discussed ongoing projects and his favorite politicians.
When it comes to characters, that last election cycle will be hard to top. Romney, Obama, Cain, Gingrich, Perry, Ron Paul, Michele Bachmann — from a writer’s perspective they were just so well-defined, and from a visual standpoint they were also particularly unique. Maybe some of the new G.O.P. batch will grow on me, but as of right now they seem slightly less interesting. Though I guess Trump has enough color for the whole group.
On the Democrat side, Hillary will obviously be fun to tackle. Bernie Sanders too. I would be ecstatic if Biden decided to run, because I think he works so well as a character.
My favorite so far has been Mitt Romney. I was bummed when he decided not to run in 2016, because he just works so well — his mannerisms, the way he looks and carries himself. I enjoyed making those videos. Plus, I was asked to do his voice for an episode of “30 Rock,” which was a thrill for me.
I’m not entirely sure when the next video will drop, but if all goes according to plan, some time in the next month.
Some videos take a few days; some take weeks; some take months. I even have one that I’ve been working on intermittently for years now. Literally years. Just chipping away a little bit here and there. I know, it sounds insane. It is insane. But I don’t release on a schedule. They’re just done when they’re done.
I do have quite a few videos that have never been released. Some of them are done, just sitting there on a hard drive. For some reason or another I decided not to put them out there. A couple of TV shows and movies. A couple of sports ones. There are a few music videos. One video that I sometimes think about going back and finishing is Josh Groban and the Bee Gees featuring Snoop Dogg. It’s an absurd combination. Kind of works, though.
I work in several different areas, and I like to keep those areas separate. At least for the time being. So, staying anonymous helps in that sense.
But the anonymity thing is something that just interests me in general. I actually have quite a few anonymous or pseudonymous projects out there, some of them predating Bad Lip Reading by several years. It’s fascinating to watch these things grow and spread on their own. It’s an interesting social experiment.
(The producer’s identity was confirmed in a very fitting way — through a YouTube video.)
This interview has been edited and condensed.
RÍO DE JANEIRO — El premio Nobel peruano Mario Vargas Llosa llama a Donald Trump un “imbécil racista”. En México rompen piñatas con su imagen después de sus comentarios sobre los inmigrantes latinos en Estados Unidos. En Nueva York, una compañía de mezcal incluso pegó carteles en los que lo llama pendejo.
Pero en Brasil, el edificio de 171 habitaciones que construye Trump en Río de Janeiro ha generado tan pocos comentarios que su socio local se siente perfectamente cómodo con sus postura sobre inmigración.
“Soy latino y la verdad no me siento para nada ofendido con sus comentarios”, asegura Paulo Figueiredo Filho, de 33 años, magnate de bienes raíces que está construyendo el lujoso Trump Hotel, y quien se considera un conservador libertario.
“Yo paso mucho tiempo en Estados Unidos”, agrega Figueiredo, “y he visto muchos inmigrantes ilegales que causan problemas, que causan líos en el país y, de hecho, estoy de acuerdo con él.”
La relativamente poca tensión que ha causado la nueva empresa hotelera de Trump aquí, a diferencia de las reacciones en otras partes de América, donde algunos gigantes de los medios y otras compañías han cortado lazos con Trump, podría ser un reflejo de los cambios, o falta de ellos, o en Brasil.
La silueta de Río de Janeiro, marcada por los esqueletos de varios proyectos hoteleros de alto perfil que fueron abandonados, sirve de testimonio del deterioro de la economía. Esto a su vez hace que prácticamente cualquier proyecto inmobiliario con posibilidades de éxito sea un interesante prospecto, ahora que la ciudad se prepara para los Juegos Olímpicos de 2016.
“Es un privilegio tener una propiedad Trump en nuestra ciudad”, asegura Alfredo Lopes, presidente de la asociación hotelera de la ciudad y de la Oficina de Convenciones y Visitantes de Río de Janeiro, y hace énfasis en que no ha puesto mucha atención a las controversias que rodean a Trump en Estados Unidos. “Este proyecto es un regalo para Río y atenderá a un segmento muy exclusivo del mercado.”
Pero también se observa una marcada dinámica cultural. Los académicos atribuyen parte de la indiferencia hacia las observaciones de Trump sobre la inmigración a una arraigada tradición de Brasil de sentirse distinto a sus vecinos de habla española, a pesar de los enérgicos esfuerzos diplomáticos en los últimos años para establecer fuertes lazos en la región.
Muchos “brasileños no se ofenden por las observaciones de Trump sobre los latinos, pues no piensan que sus odiosas declaraciones” se refieran a ellos, explica Maxine Margolis, antropóloga de la Universidad de Florida, una autoridad en el estudio de la emigración brasileña hacia Estados Unidos. “Él habla de una población que ellos ven como ‘el otro’”.
Los cálculos del número de inmigrantes brasileños en Estados Unidos varían mucho, pues se considera que la mayoría están ahí ilegalmente, pero la Dra. Margolis usa una cifra entre 900.000 y un millón, parecida a los datos usados por el ministerio de relaciones exteriores de Brasil.
Aunque algunos inmigrantes brasileños regresaron a su país luego de la crisis financiera de 2008, un periodo en el que la economía de Brasil estaba en auge, la Dra. Margolis advierte que ahora parece que los brasileños están regresando a Estados Unidos, pues la economía de su país está estancada desde hace varios años.
Por supuesto, Trump y su nuevo edificio tienen un buen número de detractores. En una ciudad definida desde siempre por la enorme brecha entre ricos y pobres, no todos consideran necesario otro hotel de lujo, mucho menos uno que piensa cobrar $500 dólares por noche en habitaciones con pisos cubiertos de mármol importado de Turquía.
“Vivimos en una ciudad que fue el puerto esclavista más grande en la historia de la humanidad, lo que produjo un legado de desigualdad que invade todo Río”, observa Theresa Williamson, urbanista y directora de RioOnWatch, una organización que reporta sobre las favelas.
Aun así, son pocas las críticas al hotel, que tendrá un costo de 120 millones de dólares y que está programado para inaugurarse antes de los Juegos Olímpicos.
Trump expresó recientemente su optimismo por Brasil, aunque la construcción de otro de sus proyectos en Río, un conjunto de cinco torres de oficinas en la zona arenosa que rodea al puerto, se ha demorado y aún no tiene fecha de terminación.
“Me encantan los brasileños, en especial las mujeres que son absolutamente increíbles”, declaró Trump en una entrevista en 2014 con la revista Veja. Trump alardeó de que tenía algo que enseñarle al pueblo brasileño, e hizo énfasis en ofrecerles un ejemplo de iniciativa empresarial y buen servicio.
“Me encanta enseñar”, aseguró. “Soy un excelente maestro.”
Cuando se le preguntó en la misma entrevista si conocía a Dilma Rousseff, Trump, al parecer sin saber que es mujer y la presidenta del país, respondió: “No. ¿Quién es él?”
Tener tan poca reverencia hacia la presidencia del país, ya fuera involuntaria o no, tampoco avivó las críticas. Después de todo, estos días están de moda las opiniones negativas sobre Rousseff, que se enfrenta a un índice de aprobación de un solo dígito. Manifestaciones masivas en las calles han pedido su renuncia por la mala fortuna del país y un colosal escándalo de sobornos en la petrolera nacional.
Figueiredo, el constructor que será dueño del Trump Hotel, con la operación a cargo de sus socios estadounidenses, se cuenta entre quienes aborrecen a la presidenta de izquierda. Él es nieto de João Figueiredo, el último autócrata de una dictadura militar de 21 años que terminó en 1985, en medio de un desastre económico.
Aunque podría esperarse que un socio de Trump promoviera su proyecto, Figueiredo va más allá de simplemente defenderlo, como han hecho los que respaldan la construcción de una torre Trump en Uruguay. Ahora Figueiredo dice que quiere limitar la influencia del gobierno en la economía (aunque Barra da Tijuca, distrito en la playa donde él vive y donde está construyendo el hotel, se ha beneficiado de una avalancha de proyectos de transporte público).
El abuelo de Figueiredo no tenía pelos en la lengua y cuando dejó el poder en 1985, afirmó que prefería el olor de los caballos que a la gente. Cuando se le preguntó qué quería que pensaran de él los brasileños, el general de cuatro estrellas respondió: “Quiero que me olviden.”
Pero la insatisfacción con el gobierno actual ha dado un aire a los grupos de derecha y ahora, en algunas de las protestas antigubernamentales se pide abiertamente el regreso de los militares al poder, tema que hasta hace poco era un tabú. Figueiredo no puede ocultar su orgullo al hablar de su abuelo y al mismo tiempo, no ahorra elogios hacia Trump, figura que en otras partes de la región está bajo ataque.
“Él es uno de los empresarios más reconocidos del mundo y, por lo menos, estamos recibiendo más atención”, indicó Figueiredo. “No creo que nadie decida no quedarse en un hotel tan fantástico solo por sus opiniones políticas.”
Sigue a NYT América en Facebook y Twitter para leer más artículos de The New York Times en español.
MOBILE, Ala. — Before Donald J. Trump arrived at a college football stadium here on Friday evening, the colorful guessing games that often accompany his campaign were very much in the air.
Would Mr. Trump actually fill all of the tens of thousands of seats at Ladd-Peebles Stadium, the home field for the University of South Alabama Jaguars? How would one of the largest cities in one of the country’s most conservative states respond to a candidate whose bombast and brashness can sometimes seem limitless? Would Mr. Trump wear a “Make America Great Again” baseball hat, perhaps to conceal the effects of the wilting Gulf Coast heat and humidity on his much-remarked-upon mane?
As usual, the answers — no, loudly and yes — came amid the trademark gusto of both Mr. Trump’s personality and his evolving campaign for the presidency.
“Now I know how the great Billy Graham felt, because this is the same feeling,” Mr. Trump, referring to the celebrated evangelist, thundered from a stage built for the night’s rally, where the vast stretches of empty seats indicated that attendance had fallen short of the more than 30,000 people he had predicted.
Mr. Trump’s errant forecast appeared to do little to diminish the zeal of those who did gather for an event that occasionally sounded more like a concert — there was a playlist that included Elton John’s “Rocket Man,” as well as a five-man band — than a political rally. But the night was punctuated with plenty of forceful reminders, including roaring chants of “U.S.A.! U.S.A.!” that Mobile had become an unexpected stop on the presidential campaign trail.
“Please focus your attention to the eastern sky,” a man’s voice announced on the loudspeakers at one point, “for the arrival in Mobile, Ala., of the next president of the United States, Donald J. Trump.” As advertised, Mr. Trump’s jet soon passed over the stadium.
By the time of the flyover, some Trump fans had been at the stadium for about 12 hours, attracted to an event whose potential for scale and boisterousness surged as the week went on. Mr. Trump’s campaign at first intended to hold the rally at a far smaller site. But as word spread that he would bring his red, white and blue road show to Mobile — an easy drive from New Orleans, Birmingham, Ala., and Jackson, Miss. — his aides said that interest was outpacing their plans.
And so Mr. Trump turned to one of the state’s largest venues for a rally of such a profile that Mobile’s mayor issued a news release filled with details about parking, shuttles and the weather. Before the gate opened at 5 p.m., two hours before Mr. Trump’s scheduled appearance, hundreds of people stood in a line snaking well into a parking lot.
That did not startle many of Mr. Trump’s supporters.
“I’m not surprised at all,” said Tommy Hopper, 51, a petroleum cargo surveyor who lives near Mobile. “When Alabama people believe in something, Alabama people go full force. We’re not a halfway state; it’s all or nothing.”
As night fell and he entered to the sounds of “Sweet Home Alabama,” Mr. Trump displayed similar vigor. He needled Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor, and critiqued Hillary Rodham Clinton. He denounced “politicians who don’t have a clue” and talked again of building a wall to seal the border with Mexico, a popular stand in a place that pursued an aggressive state-level effort to curb illegal immigration. And he told the crowd that he preferred the Bible to one of his own books.
“As much as I love ‘The Art of the Deal,’ it’s not even close,” Mr. Trump said. “We take the Bible all the way.”
What remains to be seen is whether Mr. Trump will be able to sustain Friday’s clamor in Alabama, which will hold its primary on March 1. Former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania won the Republican primary here in 2012 and is again seeking the presidency, but many people here said they were reluctant to support a more traditional politician.
Although Mr. Trump has drawn criticism for unveiling few detailed policy proposals, many of his supporters said they were unbothered.
“When he gets in there, he’ll figure it out,” said Amanda Mancini, who said she had traveled from California to see Mr. Trump. “So we do have to trust him, but he has something that we can trust in. We can look at the Trump brand, we can look at what he’s done, and we can say that’s how he’s done everything.”
Still, others said they had plenty of advice for the man they regularly identified in conversation as “Mr. Trump.”
“Hopefully, he’s going to sit there and say, ‘When I become elected president, what we’re going to do is we’re going to make the border a vacation spot, it’s going to cost you $25 for a permit, and then you get $50 for every confirmed kill,’ ” said Jim Sherota, 53, who works for a landscaping company. “That’d be one nice thing.”
Mr. Trump did not offer such a proposal. But under a threatening sky and in between cutting comments, he did crack wise about his hair.
“Who cares if it rains, right?” he asked. “If it rains, I’ll take off my hat, and I’ll prove once and for all that it’s mine.”
In the command centers of Republican presidential campaigns, aides have drawn comfort from the belief that Donald J. Trump’s dominance in the polls is a political summer fling, like Herman Cain in 2011 — an unsustainable boomlet dependent on megawatt celebrity, narrow appeal and unreliable surveys of Americans with a spotty record of actually voting in primaries. 
A growing body of evidence suggests that may be wishful thinking.
A review of public polling, extensive interviews with a host of his supporters in two states and a new private survey that tracks voting records all point to the conclusion that Mr. Trump has built a broad, demographically and ideologically diverse coalition, constructed around personality, not substance, that bridges demographic and political divides. In doing so, he has effectively insulated himself from the consequences of startling statements that might instantly doom rival candidates. 
In poll after poll of Republicans, Mr. Trump leads among women, despite having used terms like “fat pigs” and “disgusting animals” to denigrate some of them. He leads among evangelical Christians, despite saying he had never had a reason to ask God for forgiveness. He leads among moderates and college-educated voters, despite a populist and anti-immigrant message thought to resonate most with conservatives and less-affluent voters. He leads among the most frequent, likely voters, even though his appeal is greatest among those with little history of voting.
The unusual character of Mr. Trump’s coalition by no means guarantees his campaign will survive until next year’s primaries, let alone beyond. The diversity of his coalition could even be its undoing, if his previous support for liberal policies and donations to Democrats, for example, undermine his support among conservatives. And in the end, the polling suggests, Mr. Trump will run into a wall: Most Republicans do not support his candidacy and seem unlikely ever to do so. Even now, more say they definitely would not vote for him than say they support him.
But the breadth of Mr. Trump’s coalition is surprising at a time of religious, ideological and geographic divisions in the Republican Party. It suggests he has the potential to outdo the flash-in-the-pan candidacies that roiled the last few Republican nominating contests. And it hints at the problem facing his competitors and the growing pressure on them to confront him, as several, like Jeb Bush and Scott Walker, are starting to do.
His support is not tethered to a single issue or sentiment: immigration, economic anxiety or an anti-establishment mood. Those factors may have created conditions for his candidacy to thrive, but his personality, celebrity and boldness, not merely his populism and policy stances, have let him take advantage of them.
Tellingly, when asked to explain support for Mr. Trump in their own words, voters of varying backgrounds used much the same language, calling him “ballsy” and saying they admired that he “tells it like it is” and relished how he “isn’t politically correct.”
Trumpism, the data and interviews suggest, is an attitude, not an ideology.
For voters like Jan Mannarino, a 65-year-old retired teacher who drove an hour from her home in Green Oak Township, Mich., to see Mr. Trump this month, his defiance of political norms is his single greatest virtue.
“Even if he doesn’t win, he’s teaching other politicians to stop being politicians,” Ms. Mannarino said. “He comes on strong. He could say it gently. But I think no one would listen.”
When people talk about the qualities Mr. Trump would bring to the White House, they describe the raging, merciless executive who fired people for sport on television. Some mention trips to his golf courses, which they admiringly note are impeccably run. A common refrain: “He’s a person who gets things done.”
That he has no experience in government is not a liability, many say, but rather one of the main reasons they want him in Washington. 
“We don’t need a politician for president; we need a businessman,” said Tom Krzyminski, 66, a hairstylist from Bay City, Mich. “That’s what we need to get us out of the mess we’re in.”
A New York Times review of nine nonpartisan national polls and more public surveys in the early nominating states shows that, thus far, Mr. Trump is outperforming his Republican rivals with constituencies they were widely expected to dominate.
For example, he leads Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, a hero to fiscal conservatives, among Tea Party supporters, 26 percent to 13 percent, according to averages of the last nine national polls. He leads former Gov. Mike Huckabee of Arkansas, a former preacher, among evangelicals, 21 percent to 12 percent. And he is ahead of Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor and a favorite of mainstream donors, among moderate Republicans, 22 percent to 16 percent.
National polls, and both public and partisan pollsters, have struggled to unravel the precise sources of Mr. Trump’s support, leaving many to ascribe it to anger and angst in the Republican electorate. But interviews with voters highlight the degree to which his popularity hinges on personality — and offer an answer to an enduring mystery: Why haven’t Mr. Trump’s outrageous statements, his lack of loyalty to the Republican Party and his caustic attacks on rivals hurt his standing?
His most offensive utterances have, for many Republicans, confirmed his status as a unique outsider willing to challenge conventions, and satisfied a craving for plain-spoken directness.
Asked if Mr. Trump had crossed a line with his language, Carl Tomanelli, 68, a retired New York City police officer in Londonderry, N.H., seemed surprised by the question.
“People are starting to see, I believe, that all this political correctness is garbage,” he said. “I think he’s echoing what a lot of people feel and say.”
Many say they support Mr. Trump because of his unusual statements, not in spite of them.
Lisa Carey, 51, of Greenfield, N.H., immediately cited Mr. Trump’s outspokenness when asked why his support remains so high. 
“As inappropriate as some of his comments are, I think it’s stuff that a lot of people are thinking but afraid to say,” she said. “And I’m a woman.”
Asked if they think his brashness would make it more difficult for him to work effectively as president, many voters argue the opposite. 
“I want people who are negotiating with him to believe my president when he says he’s going to do something,” said Lori Szostkiewicz, 54, an educator from Hampstead, N.H. “I want to negotiate from a position of strength, not weakness.”
In interviews with voters in Michigan and New Hampshire over the past two weeks, after events hosted by Mr. Trump, none cited his policies as chief motivation for backing him. Many pointed, instead, to his wealth, saying they believed it set him apart from career politicians and freed him of the demands of donors. 
“He doesn’t need anybody’s money,” said Maureen Colcord, 60, a clinical dietitian from Derry.
Even as dozens of national and state polls have charted Mr. Trump’s steady ascent, Republican campaigns have taken solace in their conviction that those surveys are flawed and misleading. In interviews, campaign pollsters argue that such polls, conducted largely by media organizations and universities, rely on feedback from many Republicans who are unlikely to vote because the polls do not verify the party registration or voting history of respondents — a fact that those conducting the surveys concede.
New data provided to The Times by Civis Analytics, a firm aligned with Democrats and founded by the former chief analytics officer of the Obama re-election campaign, shows that there is merit to those concerns, but not enough to call Mr. Trump’s lead into question. Curious about the Republican primary landscape, the firm decided to see what it could learn from its own survey, at first for internal research purposes.
Unlike most public polls, Civis’s relied on a list of registered voters that included their voting histories, allowing it to measure Mr. Trump’s support among those who regularly cast ballots in primary elections.
The survey, which was conducted on landlines Aug. 10 through Wednesday and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus four percentage points, showed Mr. Trump’s support at 16 percent among registered voters who identified as Republicans. That tally is less than any public poll in more than a month, but still more than any other candidate. Ben Carson was at 11 percent, and Mr. Bush at 10 percent.
A poll weighted to reflect the characteristics of the adult population, like most conducted for national media organizations, would have shown Mr. Trump faring some two points better than the Civis data, which was adjusted to reflect the characteristics of registered voters who identify as Republicans. The survey included 757 Republican-leaning respondents, considerably more than other polls of the Republican presidential field.
“In reality his real support is less than what we see in the polling today,” said Masahiko Aida, lead survey scientist for Civis.
The Civis poll also hinted at a potential problem for Mr. Trump: states that allow only registered Republicans to participate in nominating contests, including Iowa and Nevada. He was at 14 percent among registered Republicans in the states with party registration, compared to 18 percent of the voters who were unaffiliated with a party.
As expected, Mr. Trump performed best among less-frequent voters. He had the support of 22 percent of Republican-leaning adults who did not vote in the 2012 general election. But he still held an edge, with 15 percent, among registered Republicans who had voted in a primary since 2008. 
“Whether the person voted in two or eight or 12 elections, Trump leads,” Mr. Aida said.
His falloff in support when infrequent voters were sifted out was not unique: Support for some of Mr. Trump’s rivals, including Mr. Bush and Mr. Carson, declined by similar amounts, or even more, among the most frequent voters, Civis found.
Mr. Trump’s strength among less-frequent voters is a challenge for his campaign, which may lack the organizing experience and infrastructure to motivate them and turn them out in large numbers for a primary or caucus.
But those irregular voters, like Norman Kas-mikha, 41, a grocer from Shelby Township, Mich., represent a real opportunity for the Republican Party, which is determined to retake the White House in 2016 after losing the last two campaigns.
“Right now I don’t have a second choice,” Mr. Kas-mikha said. “They all blend in to me. It’s Donald Trump — and everyone else.”
“My second choice,” he added, “might be staying at home.”
Washington — SOME blondes have all the fun.
As Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush get more testy, Donald Trump gets more chesty. And more blond.
It’s mind-boggling to contemplate a President Trump trying to make peace between North and South Korea, even as we watch the pugnacious Candidate Trump trolling poor Jeb on Twitter and predicting that poor Hillary would have to run the country from Leavenworth.
But, as Trump would say, deal with it.
The pol who refused to identify himself as a pol on his jury duty questionnaire has utterly scrambled American politics. And he has trademarked the phrase “Make America Great Again.”
“I was surprised it was available,” he told me.
Certainly, Trump could explode at any moment in a fiery orange ball. But meanwhile, he has exploded the hoary conventions, money-grubbing advisers and fund-raising excesses of the presidential campaign, turning everything upside down, inside out, into sauerkraut.
It is a fable conjured up in several classic movies: A magnetic, libidinous visitor shows up and insinuates himself into the lives of a bourgeois family. The free spirit leaves, but only after transforming the hidebound family, so that none of them can see themselves the same way again.
That is the profound metamorphosis Trump has wrought on the race. The Don Rickles of reality shows is weirdly bringing some reality to the presidential patty-cake.
The Donald’s strange pompadour and Hillary’s strange server have eclipsed all the usual primary permutations.
Because Trump is so loud, omnipresent, multiplatform and cutting, he’s shaping the perception of the other candidates. Once he blurts out the obvious — Jeb is low energy, Hillary is shifty, Mitt choked — some voters nod their heads and start to see his targets in that unflattering light as well.
Trump has trapped his Republican rivals into agreeing with his red-meat opinions on immigration or attacking him, neither of which are good options. Trump bluntness only works for Trump, and getting into a scrap with him is like being tossed into a bag of badgers.
Mike Murphy, the chief strategist of Jeb’s “super PAC,” went on the record in a Washington Post story with a veiled message to Jeb to stop taunting Trump.
“Trump is, frankly, other people’s problem,” Murphy said.
Jeb stooped to conquer Trump, echoing his use of the phrase “anchor baby,” only to have the news spilled that Jeb had co-chaired a group that advised politicians not to say “anchor baby.”
The real estate developer has turned a fetish for the biggest and the best — in everything from dinner rolls to skyscrapers — into a presidential vision for “the silent majority.” He’s tapped into a hunger among those who want to believe that America is not a shrinking, stumbling power passed like a pepper mill between two entitled families.
Indeed, in interviews, voters who like Trump often use an anatomical variation on the word brass.
The shame spiral and money pit that followed the false Iraq narrative W. and Dick Cheney put into play to remove the strongman Saddam Hussein — the identity crisis that came with the knowledge that America can no longer whip or outfox anybody — has led many Americans to want a strongman.
“Trump is the proverbial strongman,” David Axelrod says. “There’s no one more opposite to Obama. Bush had been impulsive and reckless, so voters wanted someone who was thoughtful and deliberative. Now they’ve had enough of gray and they want to go back to black and white, and that’s Trump. He knows nothing else.”
It’s mesmerizing to watch Trump try to turn himself into a real candidate in real time.
He was mocked when he said that he got his national security advice from watching “the shows” on TV. But voters know that top diplomats, spooks and generals led presidents down the tragic paths to the Bay of Pigs, Vietnam and Iraq. Jeb Bush gets his advice from Paul Wolfowitz, who naïvely bollixed up Iraq and gave us ISIS. And Hillary and top Republicans say they get valued counsel from Henry Kissinger, who advised Nixon to prolong the Vietnam War for political reasons even though he thought it might be unwinnable.
The neophyte pol belatedly realized that he could not glide past the horror of two Boston thugs accused of laughingly beating a homeless Hispanic with a pole and peeing on him in Trump’s name.
He lives beyond parody. There’s very little difference between the old Darrell Hammond duck-lipped impersonation of the Trumpster and Trump, the presidential candidate.
Both dwell on how “huge” and “big” his projects are and how “great” his ratings are and how much square footage he has.
(Unlike the Hammond impersonation and Trump’s turn as “S.N.L.” host, the presidential candidate shies away from boasting about hot women.)
There is nothing that excites Trump the candidate more than crowing that he has a great big crowd and Jeb has a teeny weeny crowd. He sounded orgasmic as he described to the New Hampshire town hall that his Alabama event this weekend had to be moved from a room that held 1,000 to a room that held 2,000 to a convention center to a stadium.
So Trump should appreciate the task ahead: It’s huge.
As Axelrod puts it: “In a parlance Trump would appreciate: We’re still in the swimsuit competition. It gets harder in the talent rounds.”
The schoolyard taunts from Donald J. Trump arrive on a daily basis, raining down on Jeb Bush’s sober, careful and policy-minded campaign with growing acerbity.
Mr. Trump has called Mr. Bush’s immigration plans “baby stuff” and his education policy “pathetic.” He has expressed mock sympathy for Mr. Bush’s audiences, who he says must be so bored that “they’re sleeping.” Over the weekend, Mr. Trump even poked fun at a new Bush campaign advertisement that inadvertently rendered his left hand many shades darker than his right.
“Jeb,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, “just can’t get it right.”
After enduring those slings and arrows for weeks, to the mounting dismay of supporters, Mr. Bush, the former Florida governor, and his aides have decided to venture outside their comfort zone and borrow a page from Mr. Trump’s playbook: Hit back, with force and creativity, over and over again in the coming weeks.
It is a turning point in Mr. Bush’s campaign that was on display Monday in McAllen, Tex., along the border with Mexico. There, Mr. Bush called Mr. Trump’s immigration plan “unrealistic,” described his policies as un-Republican and acidly recommended that the businessman read Mr. Bush’s book “Immigration Wars” to acquaint himself with a practical solution.
The change in Mr. Bush’s tone is a calculated strategy, interviews show, with two different but crucial aims now that Mr. Trump is proving to be a long-term obstacle, not a passing nuisance: to dilute Mr. Trump’s right-wing support by proving that he is not a genuine conservative and to show a wary Republican Party that Mr. Bush is enough of a street fighter to survive a nasty nomination contest.
In a frank if grudging acknowledgment of the altered political landscape, Mr. Bush on Monday proclaimed Mr. Trump “a serious candidate.”
“He needs to be held to account for his views,” he told reporters at a restaurant near the border.
The new approach, which began with Mr. Bush’s remarks last week in New Hampshire and then on Monday, may soon expand, drawing in surrogates who can broaden the critique beyond Mr. Trump’s policies — much the way that Mitt Romney sought to undermine rivals like Newt Gingrich in 2012, said people familiar with the discussions, who insisted on anonymity to discuss plans that were not set in stone.
In a phone interview Monday, Mr. Trump laughed at the suggestion that he read Mr. Bush’s book on immigration. “That would be exciting,” he said dryly.
“Bush has definitely seen what is happening to his campaign. It’s starting to crumble,” Mr. Trump said.
Mr. Bush’s new assertiveness was not entirely unhampered.
Even as he sought to take the shine off Mr. Trump’s candidacy, he demonstrated just how much the Republican presidential field is now campaigning on Mr. Trump’s terms. Pressed to explain his embrace of the term “anchor baby,” which many immigrants find offensive, Mr. Bush wound up echoing Mr. Trump’s resistance to linguistic sensitivity. “I think we need to take a step back,” Mr. Bush said, “and chill out a little bit as it relates to the political correctness.” (Mr. Bush said he was referring to “Asian people” who travel to the United States to give birth.)
Mr. Trump greeted this with amusement. “That sounds a little familiar,” he said in the interview.
Those close to Mr. Bush said his campaign was reluctant to so quickly enter the phase dominated by combat between candidates. Mr. Bush has barely begun introducing his own record and résumé to voters, which remains his primary objective.
Mr. Trump has shown staying power — and has made Mr. Bush the focus of his derisive, name-calling campaigning style. Mr. Bush and his aides felt they no could no longer avoid a sustained confrontation without appearing cowardly. (And they took real umbrage at Mr. Trump’s insults, especially when he called Mr. Bush “a low energy person” — a phrase Mr. Trump repeated several times during the interview.)
Kevin Madden, a former adviser to Mr. Romney’s campaign and a longtime Republican operative, said the new Bush strategy “is a recognition that we’re moving from the August preseason to the regular season where the wins and losses matter.”
He added, “The longer they let Trump do all of the talking, the greater the risk was that those criticisms could sink in with voters.”
But counterpunching at Mr. Trump poses its own hazards. A seemingly constant presence on television, he has by far the loudest megaphone in the Republican primary and can make life miserable for his foes.
Sally Bradshaw, a top adviser to Mr. Bush, said the campaign was treating Mr. Trump “as we would treat every other candidate.”
“Trump has for weeks been attacking the governor,” she said, “and Jeb has taken those opportunities to highlight their differences on the issues. It’s a contrast we welcome.”
In Texas, Mr. Bush assailed Mr. Trump’s plan to deport millions of immigrants in the country illegally and erect a giant wall at the Mexican border.
“The simple fact is his proposal is unrealistic,” Mr. Bush said. “It would cost hundreds of billions of dollars. It would violate people’s civil liberties. It would create friction with our third-largest trade partner that’s not necessary.”
Mr. Bush at times showed frustration at having to answer Mr. Trump’s criticisms on the topics of Mexico, border security and citizenship.
“I am happily married with a Mexican-American. My kids are Hispanic,” Mr. Bush said in Spanish. “The experience of immigration, no one is going to give me a lecture on this.”
Why is Donald Trump leading the polls in the G.O.P. presidential race? One explanation is his celebrity and the media attention he attracts. But he has also exploited our vulnerability to pleasing fictions about presidential power.
We like to pretend that presidents exert vast control over the country, commanding not only the direction of American politics but also the laws and policies of the country and even the state of the economy.
When presidents fail to control events to our liking, critics often suggest that the problem is the chief executive’s failure to try hard enough or act tough enough. I’ve called this pattern the Green Lantern theory of the presidency after the comic book superheroes who wield special rings with powers that are limited only by the hero’s willpower.
Mr. Trump is the purest Green Lantern candidate we’ve seen in recent years. He cleverly exploits the appeal of presidential omnipotence by contrasting his supposedly decisive style of business leadership as a real estate magnate with the compromises, inertia and policy failures that are inevitable in politics.
“Politicians are all talk, no action,” he said during his announcement speech. “Nothing’s going to get done. They will not bring us — believe me — to the promised land.” Mr. Trump offered his leadership as a solution, citing his authorship of a business advice book. “Our country needs a truly great leader, and we need a truly great leader now,” he said. “We need a leader that wrote ‘The Art of the Deal.’ ”
Most notably, Mr. Trump blames trade deals made by President Obama and other leaders for job losses that are largely the result of structural changes in the economy.
In a kind of Green Lantern theory of international trade deals, Mr. Trump suggests that he could magically bring back the manufacturing jobs that have disappeared from the United States. If he is elected, he said during the announcement speech, he’ll “bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places.”
How? Mr. Trump attributes the decline in American manufacturing jobs not to global economic trends but to the fact that the leaders of countries like Mexico and China are “smarter and more cunning” than our leaders. If he is tougher and more skilled in negotiating, Mr. Trump suggests, the jobs will come back.
Though most economists say his claims are dubious, these boasts offer a simpler and more appealing narrative than the realities of the current global economy. So maybe it’s no surprise that Mr. Trump’s rhetoric is resonating with voters who have endured stagnant wages and who have been led to believe that presidents can control the economy.
He has made similarly vague and unlikely promises to achieve superior outcomes through tough negotiating on issues like the nuclear deal with Iran and relations with Democrats in Congress.
In a certain sense, then, Mr. Trump is playing a character we created — a Frankenstein’s monster of myths of the presidency come to life.
Other politicians can’t easily knock down his claims given their own proclivity for making exaggerated promises and claims about what they will accomplish as president. Mr. Trump is in a sense calling their bluff.
Commentators find themselves in a similar bind. Those who often blame presidents for not turning around the economy or failing to exert powers beyond the capacity of the office may find it difficult to hold Mr. Trump accountable. After all, he’s only claiming to possess the Green Lantern-style powers that they’ve previously suggested presidents should exercise.
In short, Mr. Trump says he can be the president we’ve always imagined. How can a political system that has helped create that ideal say otherwise?
DUBUQUE, Iowa — Donald J. Trump, it is abundantly clear, is not a conventional candidate. And neither is his approach to recruiting campaign activists.
A chairwoman of Mr. Trump’s Iowa campaign, Tana Goertz, who has no political experience, picks the campaign’s county leaders “The Apprentice”-style — in head-to-head tests of public speaking, organizing and salesmanship. A stopwatch is involved.
“A couple of guys came out and said, ‘This isn’t for me,’ ” said Ms. Goertz, who was once a finalist on “The Apprentice,” Mr. Trump’s reality show. “I said, ‘Dude, if not now, when? Do it.’ I forced them. One of the guys’ wife emailed me and said, ‘You put some passion back into my husband I hadn’t seen in 15 years.’ ”
A major challenge for Mr. Trump’s campaign, in Iowa and elsewhere, is how to convert support in polls and raucous crowds into votes in primaries and caucuses. And picking a determined staff is central to that mission.
Much of the support for Mr. Trump, who returned to Iowa on Tuesday for another large rally, is from people who are fed up with politics as usual. They are estranged from the Republican Party leadership. He must transform their anger into a resolve to vote, starting with the Iowa caucuses, which historically have low turnout and are driven by party stalwarts — the opposite of many of the people flocking to him.
“We’re getting a lot of buzz,” Chuck Laudner, Mr. Trump’s Iowa director, said recently. “Transforming that into caucus support is going to be the heavy lift.”
At a news conference before the rally on Tuesday, Mr. Trump refused to answer a question about his immigration policies from a journalist from Univision, a Spanish language cable channel, who was escorted out.   The reporter, Jorge Ramos, later returned and engaged in a lengthy back-and-forth with Mr. Trump over his plans to deport 11 million illegal immigrants and repeal birthright citizenship. 
Many traditional operatives are skeptical of Mr. Trump’s ability to organize ranks of volunteers and activists, who are needed for the unglamorous fieldwork of wrangling voters to attend a caucus in the state’s nearly 1,700 precincts in early February.
At an Iowa rally of 2,300 evangelical Christians for Senator Ted Cruz last week, Mr. Cruz’s campaign manager, Jeff Roe, said he would rather have those supporters, who were committed to a family values “movement,” than the thousands more who turn out at a Trump rally to be “part of a show.”
To persuade a new wave of caucusgoers to participate, Mr. Trump would have to defy the past. Only about one in five registered Republicans have attended past caucuses; the dream of bringing in thousands of marginal voters and increasing the turnout beyond about 120,000 Republicans has eluded many past efforts.
“The entertainment value of a Trump event is high, but the reality of his issues is a real challenge to him,” said Steve Grubbs, the director for Senator Rand Paul’s Iowa campaign, citing Mr. Trump’s past support for gun restrictions and abortion rights. “At the end of the day, you can like the concept of Donald Trump, but voting for him at the caucuses will be a lot tougher for people.”
And yet, despite his flamboyant politics and a strategy that seems focused on appearing, every hour of every day, in the national spotlight, Mr. Trump has put in place a robust field operation in Iowa, grounded in the most time-proven methods.
He was the only candidate of 17 Republicans to plant a volunteer for all 11 days of the Iowa State Fair at the state Republican Party booth this month. Even as Mr. Trump’s bravura flyby of the fair in a helicopter produced headlines, his little-noticed volunteers collected hundreds of cards with voters’ email addresses, providing invaluable contact data to activate more volunteers. It was a far cry from the early days of his campaign, when actors were reportedly hired to fill out the crowd when he announced his presidential run.
In Ms. Goertz, a motivational speaker, Mr. Trump has a political newcomer helping to lead his organizing in Iowa, but his state director, Mr. Laudner, is a 30-year veteran of Iowa campaigns. He has built one of the largest field teams of any Republican candidate this year: 10 paid staff members.
A former executive director of the state Republican Party, Mr. Laudner is known for his enormous spreadsheets of supporters. He is well connected to evangelical and Tea Party conservatives and is known for calling through a list of people every day to have a feel for what is happening on the ground.
After directing Rick Santorum’s 2012 victory in the Iowa caucuses, Mr. Laudner said, he signed on with Mr. Trump because he was frustrated with the failure of Republicans to change Washington even with a majority in Congress. “We haven’t put any points on the board,” he said. “I was determined to do something different.”
Among the campaign’s Iowa field staff is Elizabeth Davidson, an organizer in Bettendorf, who is doing just what field staff members are supposed to: recruiting a captain for every one of the 63 precincts in her assigned territory, Scott County.
“Our candidate’s really doing a tremendous job to make our job easy,” Ms. Davidson said. “People reach out to you when they figure out you’re working for Trump.”
Mr. Trump’s celebrity has been harnessed in other ways as a recruitment tool. The campaign has leased a blue bus that it parks at shopping centers throughout the state. Scores of curious people are drawn by the large “Trump” logo, and are given caucus information packets.
On Tuesday night, Mr. Trump’s rally in Dubuque, for which the campaign received 3,000 responses, was practically in the backyard of Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, who long held the lead in polls of Iowa Republicans but recently relinquished it to Mr. Trump. The Trump campaign denied the appearance was meant as a snub to Mr. Walker, who lived not far away as a boy in northeast Iowa.
Let me get this straight. If I want the admiration and blessings of the most flamboyant, judgmental Christians in America, I should marry three times, do a queasy-making amount of sexual boasting, verbally degrade women, talk trash about pretty much everyone else while I’m at it, encourage gamblers to hemorrhage their savings in casinos bearing my name and crow incessantly about how much money I’ve amassed?
Seems to work for Donald Trump.
Polls show him to be the preferred candidate among not just all Republican voters but also the party’s vocal evangelical subset.
He’s more beloved than Mike Huckabee, a former evangelical pastor, or Ted Cruz, an evangelical pastor’s son, or Scott Walker, who said during the recent Republican debate: “It’s only by the blood of Jesus Christ that I’ve been redeemed.”
When Trump mentions blood, it’s less biblical, as Megyn Kelly can well attest.
No matter. The holy rollers are smiling upon the high roller. And they’re proving, yet again, how selective and incoherent the religiosity of many in the party’s God squad is.
Usually the disconnect involves stern moralizing, especially on matters sexual, by showily devout public figures who are then exposed as adulterers or (gasp!) closet homosexuals. I’d list all the names, starting with Josh Duggar and working backward, but my column doesn’t sprawl over an entire page of the newspaper.
Or the disconnect is between evangelists’ panegyrics about Christ’s penury and their hustle for funds to support less-than-penurious lifestyles. John Oliver, the host of HBO’s “Last Week Tonight,” has been making brilliant satirical fun of this by promoting his new tax-exempt church, Our Lady of Perpetual Exemption. Last Sunday he apologized to viewers that his wife, Wanda Jo, “cannot be with us this evening.”
“She’s at our summer parsonage in Hawaii,” he continued, “for a week of spiritual introspection and occasional parasailing.”
What’s different and fascinating about the Trump worship is that he doesn’t even try that hard for a righteous facade — for Potemkin piety. Sure, he speaks of enthusiastic churchgoing, and he’s careful to curse Planned Parenthood and to insist that matrimony be reserved for heterosexuals as demonstrably inept at it as he is.
But beyond that? He just about runs the table on the seven deadly sins. He personifies greed, embodies pride, radiates lust. Wrath is covered by his anti-immigrant, anti-“losers” rants, and if we interpret gluttony to include big buildings and not just Big Macs, he’s a glutton through and through. That leaves envy and sloth. I’m betting that he harbors plenty of the former, though I’ll concede that he exhibits none of the latter.
In 2012, inexplicably, he was invited to Liberty University, where he digressed during his remarks to extol the prudence of prenuptial agreements. But all was forgiven: His host, Jerry Falwell Jr., told audience members that Trump could be credited for “single-handedly” forcing President Obama to release his birth certificate. Oh how they cheered, as if ugly, groundless partisan rumor-mongering were on a saintly par with washing lepers’ feet.
Maybe it’s Trump’s jingoism they adore. They venerated Ronald Reagan though he’d divorced, remarried and spent much of his career in the godless clutch of Hollywood.
Maybe their fealty to Trump is payback for his donations to conservative religious groups.
Or maybe his pompadour has mesmerized them. It could, in the right wind, be mistaken for a halo.
I’m grasping at straws, because there’s no sense in the fact that many of the people who most frequently espouse the Christian spirit then proceed to vilify immigrants, demonize minorities and line up behind a candidate who’s a one-man master class in such misanthropy.
From Trump’s Twitter account gushes an endless stream of un-Christian rudeness, and he was at it again on Monday night, retweeting someone else’s denigration of Kelly as a “bimbo.” Shouldn’t he be turning the other cheek?
For politicians as for voters, devotion and grace can be fickle, convenient things. Courting the evangelical vote, Cruz used his own Twitter account last week to say that his “thoughts and prayers are with President Jimmy Carter,” whose struggle with cancer was riveting the nation. But then Cruz pressed on with a speech that bemoaned the “misery, stagnation and malaise” of Carter’s presidency. He couldn’t have hit pause on the Carter bashing for a week or two?
Carter pressed on, too — with his usual weekend routine of teaching Sunday school, which he has long done with little fanfare. His own Christianity is not a bludgeon but a bridge.
As for Trump, I must not be watching the same campaign that his evangelical fans are, because I don’t see someone interested in serving God. I see someone interested in being God.
Normally, when your main geopolitical rivals are shooting themselves in both feet, the military manual says step back and enjoy the show. But I take little comfort in watching China burning money and Russia burning food, because in today’s interdependent world we’re all affected.
I also find no joy in it because we Americans, too, have started burning our most important source of competitive advantage — our pluralism. One of our two political parties has gone nuts and started following a pied piper of intolerance, named Donald Trump.
First, we watched China’s leadership burn money — trying to prop up a ridiculously overvalued stock market by buying falling stocks with government savings, and then seeing that market continue to collapse because the very fact that the government was intervening suggested no one knew what these stocks were worth.
The Wall Street Journal reported on July 30 that the “state-owned China Securities Finance Corporation has been spending up to 180 billion yuan a day ($29 billion) to try to stabilize stocks.” Since the Shanghai exchange has fallen sharply since then, the amount of money China burned trying to prop up already unrealistic valuations must be staggering.
The economic management team in Beijing has seriously lost its way. But leaders do funky things when the ruling party’s bargain with its people is “we get to rule and you get to get rich.” Collapsing markets can quickly lead to collapsing legitimacy.
Ask the Russian president, Vladimir Putin. He burned the eastern quarter of Ukraine to distract the Russian middle class from his economic mismanagement and illegitimacy.
Putin decided that building his own Silicon Valley — the Skolkovo Innovation Center outside of Moscow — was too hard. So to build his legitimacy he chose nationalism and seized Crimea instead. Putin prefers to manufacture chips on his shoulder than microchips. When the Crimea annexation nationalist sugar high wore off, Putin started burning food imported from countries sanctioning Russia for seizing Crimea from Ukraine.
As The Times reported on Aug. 6, “Following an order by President Vladimir V. Putin, officials threw huge piles of pork, tomatoes, peaches and cheese into landfills and garbage incinerators. The frenzy, remarkable even by the standards of Russia’s recent politicization of food supplies, was gleefully reported by Russian state television.” This is in a country where food prices have soared because of the collapse of the ruble.
My fear is that once Putin’s food-burning nationalist sugar high wears off, he’ll burn up another neighbor. Estonia, please beware.
Alas, though, America has joined this assets bonfire. We’re now in a world where all top-down authority structures are being challenged. It’s most obvious in the Arab world where you have pluralistic countries that lack pluralism and so could be held together from the top-down only by an iron fist — and when that iron fist got removed they spun apart. America’s greatest advantage is its pluralism: It can govern itself horizontally by its people of all colors and creeds forging social contracts to live together as equal citizens.
It not only makes us more stable but also more innovative, because we can collaborate internally and externally with anyone anywhere, leveraging more brainpower. Who is the new C.E.O. of Google? Sundar Pichai. Who is the new C.E.O. of Microsoft? Satya Nadella. Mark Zuckerberg’s family did not come over on the Mayflower.
But right now we’re messing around with that incredible asset. Yes, we must control our borders; it is the essence of sovereignty. It has been a failure of both our political parties that the Mexican-American border has been so porous. So I am for a high wall, but with a very big gate — one that legally lets in energetic low-skilled workers and the high-I.Q. risk-takers who have made our economy the envy of the world — and for legislation that provides a pathway for the millions of illegal immigrants already here to gain legal status and eventually citizenship.
In June 2013, the Senate, including 14 Republicans, passed a bill that would do all that. But the extremists in the G.O.P. House refused to follow, so the bill stalled.
And now we have Trump shamelessly exploiting this issue even more. He’s calling for an end to the 14th Amendment’s birthright principle, which guarantees citizenship to anyone born here, and also for a government program to round up all 11 million illegal immigrants and send them home — an utterly lunatic idea that Trump dismisses as a mere “management” problem. Like lemmings, many of the other G.O.P. presidential hopefuls just followed Trump over that cliff.
This is not funny anymore. This is not entertaining. Donald Trump is not cute. His ugly nativism shamefully plays on people’s fears and ignorance. It ignores bipartisan solutions already on the table, undermines the civic ideals that make our melting pot work in ways no European or Asian country can match (try to become a Japanese) and tampers with the very secret of our sauce — pluralism, that out of many we make one.
Every era spews up a Joe McCarthy type who tries to thrive by dividing and frightening us, and today his name is Donald Trump.
Ricardo Sánchez, known as “El Mandril” on his Spanish drive-time radio show in Los Angeles, has taken to calling Donald J. Trump “El hombre del peluquín” — the man of the toupee.
Some of Mr. Sánchez’s listeners are less kind, referring to Mr. Trump, who has dismissed some Mexican immigrants as “rapists” and criminals, simply as “Hitler.”
Mr. Sánchez says that he tries to focus on the positive in presidential politics, but he, too, at times has used harsh language to describe Mr. Trump, according to translations of his show provided by his executive producer.
“A president like Trump would be like giving a loaded gun to a monkey,” Mr. Sanchez said in one broadcast. “But a gun that fires atomic bullets.”
The adversarial relationship between Mr. Trump and the Spanish-language news media, which has simmered publicly since he announced his candidacy in June, boiled over on Tuesday at a news conference in Dubuque, Iowa, when the candidate erupted at Jorge Ramos, the main news anchor at Univision and Fusion, when he tried to ask a question without being called on. Mr. Trump signaled to one of his security guards, who removed Mr. Ramos from the event.
“Don’t touch me, sir. Don’t touch me sir,” Mr. Ramos said, as he was marched out of the room. “I have the right to ask a question.”
Mr. Ramos was eventually allowed to return. But for the Spanish-language press, which has grown in size and influence in politics, the tense exchange was a highly public flexing of muscle against a candidate who many outlets no longer pretend to cover objectively: They are offended by Mr. Trump’s words and tactics — and they are showing it.
Some, including Mr. Ramos, said that their networks have covered Mr. Trump more aggressively than their mainstream counterparts, which until recently, at least, largely dismissed Mr. Trump as a summer amusement — less a serious candidate than a ratings bonanza in the form of a bombastic reality television star.
“The recent treatment that Jorge Ramos received at Mr. Trump’s press conference in Iowa is beneath contempt,” Randy Falco, the president of Univision, said on Wednesday night in a statement. On Tuesday, the National Association of Hispanic Journalists also issued a statement condemning Mr. Trump.
Mr. Ramos, who earlier this month delivered a searing indictment of Mr. Trump, calling him “the loudest voice of intolerance, hatred and division in the United States,” attributed the difference in approach to how directly the issue of immigration affects Latino-Americans.
“This is personal, and that’s the big difference between Spanish-language and mainstream media, because he’s talking about our parents, our friends, our kids and our babies,” Mr. Ramos said in a telephone interview.
Mr. Ramos, who has been called the Walter Cronkite of Latino America for the tremendous influence he holds with Hispanic viewers, said that he could not recall Spanish-language news media covering a story as aggressively as it has Mr. Trump’s candidacy.
And though cable news and the Sunday morning news shows have blanketed their political coverage with stories about many aspects of Mr. Trump’s improbable campaign, the focus of Spanish-language news programs has been almost exclusively on Mr. Trump’s controversial stance on immigration.
About 58 percent of all mentions of Mr. Trump in mainstream news media — broadcast, cable, radio and online outlets — in the past month have focused on immigration, while on Spanish-language news programs, the proportion is almost 80 percent, according to an analysis by Two.42.Solutions, a nonpartisan media analytics company. The Spanish-language news media has also been more critical in its coverage of Mr. Trump’s positions on the issue, with nearly all of it negative in tone.
José Díaz-Balart, the main anchor for Telemundo and MSNBC who takes a straight-news approach to his coverage and does not consider himself an advocate, nonetheless said that because of its viewership, Telemundo has delved deeper into the specifics of Mr. Trump’s immigration plan than many English-language outlets and has covered his candidacy with a sense of “urgency.”
“Our audience is very well versed, very knowledgeable, very well educated on the issue of immigration,” Mr. Díaz-Balart said, adding that his viewers are eager to hear “what are you realistically proposing and planning to do on the issues that are so important to the community.”
When Mr. Trump visited the United States-Mexico border last month, the Spanish-language networks devoted more time to Mr. Trump in their evening broadcasts than their English-language counterparts did; Univision gave Mr. Trump six minutes, while Telemundo — which had Mr. Díaz-Balart anchor his nightly newscast live from the border — gave him nine minutes.
In addition to his comments calling Mexican immigrants drug dealers and rapists, Mr. Trump’s immigration plan — which includes erecting a wall along the southern border and ending birthright citizenship — has earned the ire of many Hispanics, who are expected to be a critical voting bloc in 2016.
Univision severed ties with the Miss Universe Organization, of which Mr. Trump is a part owner, because of his offensive comments about Mexican immigrants. Mr. Trump is now suing the network for $500 million.
Ken Oliver-Méndez, the director of the Hispanic media arm of the conservative Media Research Center, said that in the Spanish-language news media, “There’s just very opinionated, very sweeping condemnations of Donald Trump taking place.”
An analysis of news, blogs and forums by Crimson Hexagon, a nonpartisan social media analytics software company, also found that overall mentions of Mr. Trump in the Spanish-language news media since he announced his candidacy were 69 percent negative, but were less negative — 58 percent — in the English-language news media.
Critics of the Spanish-language news coverage, including Mr. Oliver-Méndez, say that the Hispanic press is engaging in advocacy and not journalism.
“The Spanish-language media is basically taking Trump through the prism of what’s best for the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country, so to the extent that Trump is coming out with statements that are threatening the existence of that community, he’s been covered like an enemy,” he said.
He pointed to several moments last week on the national United States evening news broadcasts of Azteca America, a Spanish-language television network. In one, an anchor said that Mr. Trump had nothing in his head but air, and in another, Armando Guzmán, a Washington correspondent, accused Mr. Trump of lying: “As in everything else, Trump is not telling the truth,” Mr. Guzmán said.
The last one-on-one interview Mr. Trump gave to a Spanish-language network was with Mr. Díaz-Balart on Telemundo, shortly after Mr. Trump announced his candidacy. The Trump campaign said it continues to give credentials to Spanish-language organizations for its events and treats them like all other news media.
Alex Nogales, the president of the National Hispanic Media Coalition, a civil rights organization focused on American Latinos, said that the Spanish-language news media’s coverage of Mr. Trump has broad implications for the presidential election, whether or not he becomes the Republican nominee.
He said that for Latino voters, there will be a “reinforcement in terms of what they’re hearing, what they’re seeing, what they’re listening to” from the Republican candidates.
Lawrence Glick, an executive vice president at the Trump Organization who oversees golf, called Mr. Nogales this month, saying “he wanted to make peace” and set up a meeting with Mr. Trump, Mr. Nogales said. (The coalition has been calling for the suspension of all professional golf tournaments from Trump courses). But the two men seem to have reached an impasse, with no meeting imminent.
Mr. Ramos, for his part, sees a possible bright spot in Mr. Trump’s 2016 role.
“The only positive thing I might think of for Mr. Trump is that he brought immigration to the forefront of the 2016 campaign,” he said.
Ever since Donald Trump has risen to the top of the polls, Republican strategists have questioned whether those polls might be overestimating his support.
There is evidence to support that theory.
We wrote about Mr. Trump’s support on Sunday, using polling data provided by Civis Analytics, a Democratic data firm founded by the 2012 Obama campaign’s analytics director, Dan Wagner. It showed Mr. Trump faring worse than in many recent public polls, but it was not enough to call his lead into question.
An analysis of the data revealed that he fares best among voters who don’t regularly participate in primary elections. Nevertheless, he still leads the other G.O.P. candidates, even among the most frequent voters.
The analysis also suggests that although Mr. Trump fares better among irregular voters, it’s not by an unusual amount. And some other candidates also do better with infrequent voters.
Before delving into the results, it’s important to understand why Civis polls are unlike the surveys sponsored by news organizations or universities. Nearly all public polls try to interview adults by randomly calling telephone numbers, a technique known as random digit dialing. They adjust the responses to match the demographic characteristics of the adult population, then remove those people who say they’re not registered to vote.
The technique is well grounded in statistical theory, but it has shortcomings for election polling. One of those shortcomings is that the adult population doesn’t necessarily reflect the electorate, and that’s especially true in primaries. Most adults, after all, do not vote in primary elections. People tend to self-report that they’re voters, even when they’re not.
The public polls can be misleading if nonvoting adults have substantially different views from primary voters. Usually, the difference isn’t huge. But some analysts have argued that Mr. Trump’s celebrity might give him an unusual advantage among irregular voters, who might not pay much attention to political news.
The candidates’ campaigns, for whom more accurate results really matter, have moved to a different approach to polling: They draw their sample from voter registration files, which contain information on voting history. That gives campaigns a powerful tool for examining the likely electorate.
If Mr. Trump had a big advantage among unlikely voters, a poll using a listed sample — like the Civis data — would be the way to find out. The Civis poll was conducted Aug. 10 to 19 and had a sample of 757 respondents. That sample was as much as three times larger than that of some public polls.
The results showed Mr. Trump with 16 percent of the vote, below any of his poll results in a month. But much of the difference was because 22 percent of voters in the Civis poll were undecided — much more than in many recent public surveys.
The proportion of respondents who “don’t know” often varies from pollster to pollster, a phenomenon called a “house effect.” That’s because the wording of the questions varies or the interviewers have been trained to push undecided voters into making a choice. Sometimes it depends on whether pollsters asked all respondents or only those registered to vote.
The number of undecided voters can affect the  rest of the results in a survey. For instance, if undecided voters were allocated proportionally until the number of undecided voters fell to the level of other polls, Mr. Trump would hold 21 percent of the vote. It’s not a good idea to assume that undecided voters break proportionally, but it gives a sense of how much undecided votes could explain the difference between the Civis data and the public polls. (Mr. Trump leads in a national polling average, at 26 percent).
The huge gap between the Civis results for Mr. Trump and other surveys also hints at the possibility that these voters, pushed to make a choice in public polls, might be breaking for Mr. Trump by a disproportionate margin.
At the very least, the large number of undecided voters suggests that many who tell pollsters they support a candidate might have weak preferences, and that Mr. Trump might be the beneficiary.
The large number of undecided voters makes it difficult to directly compare the Civis numbers with other public polls. But the Civis analysis, using voter history data, nonetheless offers good reason to believe that Mr. Trump might fare best among voters who have little history of voting.
Civis tried different methods to measure the effect of voter participation. All the methods showed the same basic story, with Mr. Trump faring better among irregular voters, but not by an unusual amount.
It was also able to look at the impact on other candidates. Jeb Bush, Ben Carson and Chris Christie fared better among irregular voters by a similar or even greater amount. Carly Fiorina, Scott Walker, Mike Huckabee, Ted Cruz and John Kasich fared better among more regular primary voters than irregular voters.
Civis used a simple model to estimate the relationship between candidate preference and vote history — measured by the total number of elections respondents had voted in since 2000. It found that Mr. Trump, Mr. Bush and Mr. Carson all did much worse among voters who had participated in more elections.
Mrs. Fiorina saw her support rise with vote participation, as did Mr. Walker, Mr. Cruz, Mr. Kasich and Mr. Huckabee.
Civis took another step and weighted its sample under two scenarios: one reflecting the adult population of Republicans, the other of primary voters. Primary voters aren’t just likelier to vote; they’re also older and likelier to be registered Republicans. Mr. Trump fared two percentage points worse among primary voters than Civis estimated he would have among all adults. Other candidates, like Mr. Bush and Mr. Carson, actually lost more ground. Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Bush also seems to be benefiting from name recognition.
On the other hand, Mrs. Fiorina gained around three points in the primary electorate — although she still held no more than 5 percent — while Mr. Kasich, Mr. Walker, Mr. Huckabee and Rand Paul each picked up about a point.
Parsing the results by vote history helps illustrate that Mr. Trump’s support was lowest among the most frequent voters. Mr. Trump had 15 percent support among voters who had participated in a primary since 2008, but he had 22 percent of the vote among Republicans who did not vote in the 2012 general election.
Mr. Trump’s seven-point gap was rivaled by Mr. Bush at five, and Chris Christie at four. Mr. Christie had virtually no support — at 1 percent of the vote — among voters who had voted in a primary since 2008.
On the other hand, Mr. Kasich fared four points better among voters who had participated in a primary than those who had not. Mr. Walker, Mr. Cruz, Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Huckabee all fared three points better.
Over all, the data is consistent with the view that Mr. Trump’s support might be overstated by public polls. But he leads among voters who have participated in one or 12 elections. His challenge among likely voters isn’t necessarily unique. His lead might be modestly overstated, but it’s not a mirage.
Ricardo Sánchez, conocido como El Mandril en su programa de radio en español en Los Ángeles, ha empezado a llamar a Donald J. Trump “el hombre del peluquín”.
Algunos de los oyentes de Sánchez son menos amables y simplemente llaman “Hitler” al candidato republicano, quien ha manifestado su desprecio por los inmigrantes mexicanos llamándolos violadores y criminales.
Sánchez asegura que trata de enfocarse en el lado positivo de la campaña presidencial, pero según grabaciones de su programa también ha usado duros epítetos para referirse al magnate de los bienes raíces.
“Poner en la presidencia a Trump sería como darle un arma cargada a un mico”, afirmó Sánchez en una de sus transmisiones. “Pero una pistola de balas atómicas.”
La agitada relación entre Trump y los medios en español, que se ha ido calentando desde que él anunció su candidatura en junio, llegó a su punto más álgido este martes en una conferencia de prensa en Dubuque, Iowa, donde el candidato estalló contra Jorge Ramos, el principal presentador de Univisión y Fusion, que trató de hacer una pregunta fuera de turno. Trump le hizo una seña a uno de sus guardias y éste sacó a Ramos del evento.
“No me toque, señor, no me toque, señor”, decía Ramos mientras era escoltado hacia el exterior de la sala. “Yo tengo el derecho de hacer preguntas.”
Posteriormente a Ramos se le permitió regresar al salón. Pero el tenso intercambio mostró cómo la prensa en español, que ha crecido en tamaño e influencia política, no prentende cubrir objetivamente la canditatura: están ofendidos por las palabras y las tácticas de Trump.
Algunos periodistas, como el propio Ramos, han dicho que sus canales han cubierto a Trump de manera más persistente que los medios convencionales que, hasta hace poco, desdeñaban a Trump como una diversión pasajera, no tanto un candidato serio sino una bendición para el rating, como cualquier otra estrella de los “reality shows”.
Ramos, que hace poco llamó a Trump “la voz más ruidosa de la intolerancia, el odio y las divisiones de Estados Unidos” en una nota editorial, atribuye la diferencia de enfoque a lo delicado que es el tema de la inmigración para los estadounidenses de origen latino, pues los afecta directamente.
“Esto es personal, y ésa es la gran diferencia entre los medios en español y los convencionales, pues él está hablando de nuestros padres, de nuestros amigos, de nuestros hijos y de nuestros bebés”, comentó Ramos por teléfono.
Ramos, que ha sido llamado el Walter Cronkite de los latinos en Estados Unidos por la tremenda influencia que tiene sobre los espectadores hispanos, agregó que no recuerda que ningún medio informativo en español haya cubierto un tema de manera tan persistente como la candidatura de Trump.
Y aunque los noticieros por cable y los programas dominicales han incluido reportajes sobre la improbable campaña de Trump, el interés de los programas informativos en español ha estado centrado casi exclusivamente en la controvertida postura de Trump sobre inmigración.
El mes pasado, un 58 por ciento de todas las menciones sobre Trump en los medios convencionales (televisión pública y por cable, radio y digital) se centraron en la inmigración, mientras que en los programas informativos en español la proporción fue de casi de un 80 por ciento, según un análisis de Two.42.Solutions, compañía de análisis de medios no partidista. Los medios en español también han sido más críticos en su cobertura de la posición de Trump.
José Díaz-Balart, el principal locutor de Telemundo y MSNBC, que tiene un estilo de reportería neutral y no se considera activista, dijo que debido a su audiencia, Telemundo ha ahondado de manera más profunda que los canales en inglés en los detalles específicos de los planes de Trump sobre la inmigración, y ha cubierto su candidatura con un sentido de “urgencia”.
“Nuestro público está muy bien informado y muy bien educado en el tema de la inmigración”, explicó Díaz-Balart, y agregó que sus espectadores están ansiosos de escuchar “qué se está proponiendo y planeando de manera realista en temas que son tan importantes para la comunidad”.
El mes pasado, cuando Trump visitó la frontera entre México y Estados Unidos, los canales en español le dedicaron más tiempo en sus emisiones centrales que los noticieros en inglés; Univisión le dio seis minutos mientras Telemundo, que envió a Díaz-Balart a trasmitir en vivo desde la frontera, pasó nueve minutos con Trump.
Además de su discurso donde llamó narcotraficantes y violadores a los inmigrantes mexicanos, el plan de inmigración de Trump, que contempla erigir una muralla a lo largo de la frontera y acabar con el derecho de ciudadanía por nacimiento, también se ha ganado la ira de muchos hispanos, que probablemente serán una población decisiva en las elecciones de en 2016.
Tras los comentarios sobre los inmigrantes mexicanos, Univisión cortó sus lazos con la Organización Miss Universo, de la cual Trump es copropietario. Trump demandó al canal por $500 millones de dólares.
Ken Oliver-Méndez, director de la rama hispana de medios del Centro de Investigación de Medios, organización de talante conservador, afirma que en los medios informativos en español “hay condenas muy dogmáticas, muy demoledoras contra Donald Trump”.
Un análisis de las noticias, los blogs y los foros realizado por Crimson Hexagon, compañía no partidista de software de analítica para medios sociales, también encontró que desde que Trump anunció su candidatura, las menciones del magnate de bienes raíces han sido 69 por ciento negativas en los medios informativos en español, mientras que en inglés las menciones negativas fueron apenas del 58 por ciento.
Los críticos de la cobertura de los medios en español, como Oliver-Méndez, afirman que la prensa hispana está dedicada al activismo y no al periodismo.
“Los medios en español básicamente están mirando a Trump a través del prisma de qué es mejor para los once millones de indocumentados. Por esto, en la medida en que Trump sale con declaraciones que amenazan la existencia de esa comunidad, lo cubren como un enemigo”, precisó.
Señaló varios momentos de las trasmisiones centrales de la semana pasada de Azteca América, un canal de televisión en español. Un locutor señaló que Trump no tenía más que aire en la cabeza; Armando Guzmán, corresponsal en Washington, acusó a Trump de mentir: “Como en todo lo demás, Trump no está diciendo la verdad”, comentó Guzmán.
La última entrevista que dio Trump a un canal en español fue con Díaz-Balart en Telemundo, poco después de que anunciara su candidatura. El equipo de campaña de Trump asegura que sigue acreditando a los medios en español para sus eventos y que los trata igual que a todos los demás.
Ramos, por su parte, sí ve un posible punto positivo del protagonismo de Trump en la campaña electoral.
“Lo único positivo que puedo pensar de Trump es que puso el tema de la inmigración en el centro de la campaña de 2016”, declaró.
Ricardo Sánchez, conocido como El Mandril en su programa de radio en español en Los Ángeles, ha empezado a llamar a Donald J. Trump “el hombre del peluquín”.
Algunos de los oyentes de Sánchez son menos amables y simplemente llaman “Hitler” al candidato republicano, quien ha manifestado su desprecio por los inmigrantes mexicanos llamándolos violadores y criminales.
Sánchez asegura que trata de enfocarse en el lado positivo de la campaña presidencial, pero según grabaciones de su programa también ha usado duros epítetos para referirse al magnate de los bienes raíces.
“Poner en la presidencia a Trump sería como darle un arma cargada a un mico”, afirmó Sánchez en una de sus trasmisiones. “Pero una pistola de balas atómicas.”
La agitada relación entre Trump y los medios en español, que se ha ido calentando desde que él anunció su candidatura en junio, llegó a su punto más álgido este martes en una conferencia de prensa en Dubuque, Iowa, donde el candidato estalló contra Jorge Ramos, el principal presentador de Univisión y Fusión, que trató de hacer una pregunta fuera de turno. Trump le hizo una seña a uno de sus guardias y éste sacó a Ramos del evento.
“No me toque, señor, no me toque, señor”, decía Ramos mientras era escoltado hacia el exterior de la sala. “Yo tengo el derecho de hacer preguntas.”
Posteriormente a Ramos se le permitió regresar al salón. Pero el tenso intercambio mostró cómo la prensa en español, que ha crecido en tamaño e influencia política, no prentende cubrir objetivamente la canditatura: están ofendidos por las palabras y las tácticas de Trump.
Algunos periodistas, como el propio Ramos, han dicho que sus canales han cubierto a Trump de manera más persistente que los medios convencionales que, hasta hace poco, desdeñaban a Trump como una diversión pasajera, no tanto un candidato serio sino una bendición para el rating, como cualquier otra estrella de los “reality shows”.
Ramos, que hace poco llamó a Trump “la voz más ruidosa de la intolerancia, el odio y las divisiones de Estados Unidos” en una nota editorial, atribuye la diferencia de enfoque a lo delicado que es el tema de la inmigración para los estadounidenses de origen latino, pues los afecta directamente.
“Esto es personal, y ésa es la gran diferencia entre los medios en español y los convencionales, pues él está hablando de nuestros padres, de nuestros amigos, de nuestros hijos y de nuestros bebés”, comentó Ramos por teléfono.
Ramos, que ha sido llamado el Walter Cronkite de los latinos en Estados Unidos por la tremenda influencia que tiene sobre los espectadores hispanos, agregó que no recuerda que ningún medio informativo en español haya cubierto un tema de manera tan persistente como la candidatura de Trump.
Y aunque los noticieros por cable y los programas dominicales han incluido reportajes sobre la improbable campaña de Trump, el interés de los programas informativos en español ha estado centrado casi exclusivamente en la controvertida postura de Trump sobre inmigración.
El mes pasado, un 58 por ciento de todas las menciones sobre Trump en los medios convencionales (televisión pública y por cable, radio y digital) se centraron en la inmigración, mientras que en los programas informativos en español la proporción fue de casi 80 por ciento, según un análisis de Two.42.Solutions, compañía de análisis de medios no partidista. Los medios en español también han sido más críticos en su cobertura de la posición de Trump.
José Díaz-Balart, el principal locutor de Telemundo y MSNBC, que tiene un estilo de reportería neutral y no se considera activista, dijo que debido a su audiencia, Telemundo ha ahondado de manera más profunda que los canales en inglés en los detalles específicos de los planes de Trump sobre la inmigración, y ha cubierto su candidatura con un sentido de “urgencia”.
“Nuestro público está muy bien informado y muy bien educado en el tema de la inmigración”, explicó Díaz-Balart, y agregó que sus espectadores están ansiosos de escuchar “qué se está proponiendo y planeando de manera realista en temas que son tan importantes para la comunidad”.
El mes pasado, cuando Trump visitó la frontera entre México y Estados Unidos, los canales en español le dedicaron más tiempo en sus emisiones centrales que los noticieros en inglés; Univisión le dio seis minutos mientras Telemundo, que envió a Díaz-Balart a trasmitir en vivo desde la frontera, pasó nueve minutos con Trump.
Además de su discurso donde llamó narcotraficantes y violadores a los inmigrantes mexicanos, el plan de inmigración de Trump, que contempla erigir una muralla a lo largo de la frontera y acabar con el derecho de ciudadanía por nacimiento, también se ha ganado la ira de muchos hispanos, que probablemente serán una población decisiva en las elecciones de en 2016.
Tras los comentarios sobre los inmigrantes mexicanos, Univisión cortó sus lazos con la Organización Miss Universo, de la cual Trump es copropietario. Trump demandó al canal por $500 millones de dólares.
Ken Oliver-Méndez, director de la rama hispana de medios del Centro de Investigación de Medios, organización de talante conservador, afirma que en los medios informativos en español “hay condenas muy dogmáticas, muy demoledoras contra Donald Trump”.
Un análisis de las noticias, los blogs y los foros realizado por Crimson Hexagon, compañía no partidista de software de analítica para medios sociales, también encontró que desde que Trump anunció su candidatura, las menciones del magnate de bienes raíces han sido 69 por ciento negativas en los medios informativos en español, mientras que en inglés las menciones negativas fueron apenas del 58 por ciento.
Los críticos de la cobertura de los medios en español, como Oliver-Méndez, afirman que la prensa hispana está dedicada al activismo y no al periodismo.
“Los medios en español básicamente están mirando a Trump a través del prisma de qué es mejor para los once millones de indocumentados. Por esto, en la medida en que Trump sale con declaraciones que amenazan la existencia de esa comunidad, lo cubren como un enemigo”, precisó.
Señaló varios momentos de las trasmisiones centrales de la semana pasada de Azteca América, un canal de televisión en español. Un locutor señaló que Trump no tenía más que aire en la cabeza; Armando Guzmán, corresponsal en Washington, acusó a Trump de mentir: “Como en todo lo demás, Trump no está diciendo la verdad”, comentó Guzmán.
La última entrevista que dio Trump a un canal en español fue con Díaz-Balart en Telemundo, poco después de que anunciara su candidatura. El equipo de campaña de Trump asegura que sigue acreditando a los medios en español para sus eventos y que los trata igual que a todos los demás.
Ramos, por su parte, sí ve un posible punto positivo del protagonismo de Trump en la campaña electoral.
“Lo único positivo que puedo pensar de Trump es que puso el tema de la inmigración en el centro de la campaña del 2016”, declaró.

Roger J. Stone Jr., a longtime Republican political operative who doesn’t mind playing rough, is back in the spotlight. And that’s how he likes it.

Ever since he parted ways with Donald J. Trump, whose presidential campaign he was advising until this month, he has been a much sought-after television guest, having appeared on “Fox & Friends,” “Anderson Cooper 360,” “Morning Joe” and “Today,” among many other programs.

“Never miss the opportunity to have sex or be on television, as Gore Vidal said,” Mr. Stone said, sitting in a black leather Corbusier chair in the one-bedroom apartment on the Upper East Side where he stays when he is in New York.

He split with Mr. Trump in the wake of the Aug. 6 Republican presidential debate, soon after he said he strongly advised Mr. Trump to stop attacking the popular Fox anchor Megyn Kelly, who was a moderator at the Cleveland event.

Mr. Trump said he fired Mr. Stone. Mr. Stone said he quit.

The breakup made for good copy in the political press — here were two gunslingers, facing each other in the news-media glare — and it turned Mr. Stone into something of a hot property rather than just another ho-hum talking head.

Aside from giving him a forum to rail against Mr. Trump’s many political foes, the talk-show rounds have allowed Mr. Stone to display his highly developed sense of style.

“It’s given me a chance to show off an extraordinary wardrobe,” said Mr. Stone, who turned 64 on Thursday. “I’ve worn seersucker twice on CNN!”

Mr. Stone’s suits are custom-made — and built to last. “I don’t think I’ve had a new garment made in 20 years,” he said. “When you have bespoke things made, a good tailor puts enough fabric in the seams, so as you get older and fatter, or as you lose weight, they can be taken in and out. So most of my suits were made by Anderson & Sheppard in London a hundred years ago. I have used Alan Flusser here, who is like my sartorial mentor and the total arbitrator of good taste.”

Asked how his suits have lasted so long, Mr. Stone said: “You need to avoid dry cleaning. Dry cleaning destroys fabric. Use a whisk broom and a little cool water. Air them outside.”

For Mr. Stone, style and substance go together, just as, in his view, politics is as much about theater as it is about policy.

“If life is a stage, then you should always be in costume,” he said. “And if you are trying to connote a certain authority in your business life, I think being well dressed is part of that. I feel good, I feel confident, when I’m properly clad. I feel like a master of the universe, as it were.”

Mr. Stone has continued to cheerlead for Mr. Trump’s candidacy when he appears on the programs in his array of summer finery. He talks about Trump the businessman. Trump the leader. Trump the man who will make America great again. A skeptic may suppose that this master of political stagecraft had planned the whole breakup situation.

Before the split, he said, his consultancy firm brought in $40,000 for the work he did as an adviser to Mr. Trump, the tycoon-turned-Republican-front-runner. Asked if he had spoken with Mr. Trump since they apparently went their separate ways, Mr. Stone said: “I would rather not say. I still consider him a friend, and think he still considers me a friend; let’s just leave it at that. And I’m going to keep beating the drum for him until he is in the White House.”
(In an interview on “Fox & Friends” a few days after Mr. Stone’s departure from the campaign, Mr. Trump said, “Roger Stone is a nice guy, but I let him go because I really wasn’t using him and he liked to get a lot of publicity for himself, which I didn’t want.”)
As a boy in Lewisboro, N.Y., Mr. Stone volunteered at a Republican headquarters to work for Barry Goldwater’s 1964 presidential campaign. He cried when Mr. Goldwater, the conservative candidate, lost in a landslide to Lyndon B. Johnson. At around the same time, watching old movies on television, he developed an appreciation for beautiful clothes, especially admiring the film stars George Raft, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., Gary Cooper and the actor-turned-Connecticut governor John Davis Lodge, who serve as role models for his own personal style, he said.
At age 19, as The Washington Post reported in 1986 and The New Yorker mentioned in a 2008 profile of Mr. Stone, he donated money in the name of a socialist organization to the presidential campaign of Paul N. McCloskey Jr., a Republican, who was called Pete. He then sent a letter and a receipt from the McCloskey campaign to The New Hampshire Union-Leader in an effort to discredit the candidate and to help his political idol, Richard M. Nixon, who was then running for re-election.

Mr. Stone went on to work for Ronald Reagan’s failed 1976 presidential bid and his victorious 1980 and 1984 campaigns. He has also served as a key player for a number of other Republicans, including Bob Dole, George H. W. Bush, George W. Bush, Prescott Bush and the former New Jersey governor Thomas H. Kean. He worked alongside the political fixer Roy M. Cohn, whom he counts as a mentor, and then with another expert in the art of campaign politics, Lee Atwater, during the 1988 presidential campaign. He also reportedly played a part in the 2000 presidential recount.

Mr. Stone, whose main residence is Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he lives with his wife, Nydia Bertran Stone, has stuffed his New York apartment with images of his heroes, including Reagan and Goldwater. A large photograph of Nixon takes pride of position, hanging over the bed. Mr. Stone often dined with Nixon at his home in Saddle River, N.J., in the years after his resignation from the presidency. Mr. Stone also wears a tattoo of the 37th president’s face on his back.

Other decorative touches suggest Mr. Stone’s fascination with the days of bygone glamour, with framed photographs of Cary Grant, Al Jolson, Rudolph Valentino and William Powell, and ashtrays from Toots Shor’s and the Stork Club. An entire wall is devoted to framed illustrations of the fashion artist Laurence Fellows, who made his reputation at Vanity Fair, Vogue and Esquire in the 1930s.

Hundreds of neckties hang on either side of the Nixon photo, and Mr. Stone joked that he has more shoes than Imelda Marcos — whose husband, the Philippines dictator Ferdinand Marcos, he once advised. There are also artifacts depicting Chairman Mao, whose mass marketing techniques Mr. Stone said he admires. A framed poster from a sex club in Amsterdam, which Mr. Stone said he took from a wall during a visit there, completes the décor.

Mr. Stone maintains his own fashion blog, Stone on Style, and holds the unlikely seeming title of men’s fashion editor for the conservative political website The Daily Caller. Through both outlets, he expounds on why men should not wear jeans or ascots, and sings the praises of the Madras jacket for the summertime and the velvet blazer for the winter holidays.

For years, he has presented his own best- and worst-dressed lists in the vein of Richard Blackwell, and his “Stone’s Rules,” which he plans to publish this year in book form, includes this bit of sartorial opinion: “Men over 30 who wear synthetic fabrics should get the death penalty.”

As for the style of his favorite candidate in the 2016 race, Mr. Stone said, “He is a Brioni man,” referring to the Rome-based fashion house favored by Mr. Trump, who has lately adorned his Brioni suit jackets with the requisite American flag pin.

Mr. Stone praised Mr. Trump as a trendsetter in the necktie department, saying: “He is a guy who defined the red power tie. He made the red power tie in the ’70s. His style works for him. He is a guy who is comfortable in a suit and tie. He likes wearing them. It’s like his uniform. It becomes part of his brand.”

His bias in favor of Mr. Trump may play a part in his opinion of other candidates’ fashion choices. Concerning Hillary Rodham Clinton, Mr. Stone said: “If she is picking out her clothes, it’s awful. If someone else is picking them out, it’s even worse.”

He feels much the same about Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, with whom Mr. Trump has tangled. “Rand Paul could walk down the street in Manhattan and nobody would know who he was,” Mr. Stone said. “He looks like a guy who went to the gym, jumped in the shower really quick and then ran to the meeting. He looks unkempt. Cowboy boots from Kentucky. O.K., whatever. But you can’t dress like a college student. Someone should get the guy a decent haircut and a good suit.”

He also had stern words for The Daily Caller’s founder and editor in chief, Tucker Carlson, a friend of Mr. Stone’s who regularly wore a bow tie until 2006. “I won’t say he lost his mojo,” Mr. Stone said of Mr. Carlson, “but he lost some of it when he went to a straight tie. I don’t know if some image consultant at Fox told him to do that. Everybody said, ‘Oh, yeah, it’s the guy with the bow tie.’ It was like a trademark. I wouldn’t have given the bow tie up.”

Mr. Stone, the father of two adopted children and grandfather to five, is also no fan of the rolled-up shirt-sleeve look of so many male candidates on the stump. “You want to be president?” he said. “Dress like a president. I think we have an ideal in mind, and maybe John Kennedy has contributed to that ideal, as well as Reagan. They’re both uncommonly handsome and made for the television age. These guys are larger than life. They are not only handsome, but they are well turned out. I think there is too much of an effort to look like everyone else.

“We don’t want our president to look like everyone else,” he continued. “We want him to dress like a leader, someone you look up to. I think it’s phony.”

Not surprisingly, he is not so impressed with the demeanor of another rival to Mr. Trump, Jeb Bush. “He looks uncomfortable,” Mr. Stone said. “That isn’t going to get him votes. Trump is having the time of his life. He likes hitting the stump.”

He said that Mr. Trump shares an important trait — tenaciousness — with Nixon.

“You kind of picture him going to bed in a suit and tie,” Mr. Stone said of Nixon. “He always wore his jacket, never took the jacket off. Always in a suit and tie, and always somber.”

Aside from his tendency to go after Ms. Kelly, there is something else that Mr. Stone does not like about Mr. Trump: the Donald Trump men’s clothing line that was available at Macy’s for 11 years before the store dropped it in July, soon after the candidate asserted, during his announcement speech, that Mexico was sending rapists to the United States.

When asked what he thought of the Donald Trump ties in particular, Mr. Stone said, “I wouldn’t wear them.”
It was Donald J. Trump at his neediest, pleading with the television anchor in front of him to acknowledge a poll that, he said, showed that Hispanics really do love him. “You saw that, right?” he asked. “Did you see it? Wait. Did you see it?”
It was Donald Trump at his wiliest, declaring in one breath that he had “no idea” who the anchor was and, in the next, reminding the journalist, Jorge Ramos, that he was the subject of a Trump lawsuit.
And it was Donald Trump at his most self-conscious, kicking Mr. Ramos out of a news conference and then, sensing that the mood in the room was turning against him, inviting Mr. Ramos back to pepper the candidate with questions. “Now I like him,” Mr. Trump told a press corps seemingly dazed from the whiplash.
The 30-minute news conference Mr. Trump presided over in Iowa on Tuesday night was the purest distillation of the psychological quirks and emotional idiosyncrasies that have made his candidacy such an irresistible spectacle — at times repellent, but often riveting.
“One of the lasting memories of this campaign is going to be that exchange,” said David Gergen, an adviser to four presidents.
America is well acquainted with Trump the Tormentor, who, armed with a bully’s eye for weak spots, expertly deploys an arsenal of clever insults at his unfortunate rivals.
But as the news conference wore on, viewers saw something more revealing: the profound vulnerability and the insatiable hunger for affirmation that lurk beneath Mr. Trump’s better-known qualities of bombast and bravado.
Most candidates for president take extraordinary pains to conceal their obsession with the news media’s coverage of them, with their daily standing in polls and, heaven forbid, with their moment-by-moment treatment on Twitter. It is all beneath them, they insist.
Not Mr. Trump, for whom it serves as a kind of life force.
When asked on Tuesday about his caustic treatment of the Fox News anchor Megyn Kelly, Mr. Trump reveled in the wisdom of “the Internet,” which he said had declared him the winner of that particular feud.
“All you have to do is look,” he told the reporters assembled before him at a convention center in Dubuque, Iowa. “You will see who people favor in that one.”
Pressed on his sometimes outrageous conduct during the first Republican presidential debate, Mr. Trump ticked off, by name, the instant audience polls that had shown him outperforming his nine rivals on stage.
“I won in every single poll of the debate,” he said. “I won from Drudge. I won in Time magazine.”
The absence of anything resembling a conventional political filter has left political veterans stunned.
“There is no thought left unexpressed, no self-praise left unspoken,” Mr. Gergen said with amusement and dismay.
At most of Mr. Trump’s public appearances, he remains firmly in control of the stage, speaking to adoring audiences from the safety of a distant lectern or inviting reporters to interview him on his home turf: a marble atrium within Trump Tower in Manhattan.
On Tuesday, Mr. Trump was on less familiar terrain: standing on a spare stage in a faraway state, with a heavy blue curtain as his backdrop and dozens of skeptical political reporters arranged in front of him.
In his back and forth with Mr. Ramos, a popular newsman on Univision and an outspoken detractor of Mr. Trump, he veered from scornful to solicitous, his recalibrations unfolding in real time for all to see.
“Sit down,” Mr. Trump said scoldingly when Mr. Ramos shot up and started his interrogation.
“I have the right to ask a question,” Mr. Ramos declared.
“No, you don’t. You haven’t been called,” Mr. Trump said, adding a classic dose of Trump derision. “Go back to Univision.”
With that, Mr. Trump pursed his lips and gazed over at his security detail, signaling for them to act. They did, removing an aggrieved Mr. Ramos.
But when a reporter from MSNBC, Kasie Hunt, spoke up for Mr. Ramos, asking Mr. Trump if he would let him return to the room, the candidate began to re-evaluate his heavy-handed approach. Mr. Ramos was allowed back in.
“Go ahead, Jorge,” he said, belying his earlier claim of not knowing Mr. Ramos. 
This time, when Mr. Ramos questioned him, Mr. Trump showed new and sudden patience. His sarcasm eventually receded, his voice fell an octave, and a smile came over his face.
Even as Mr. Ramos interrupted, Mr. Trump offered an explanation of why, in his view, babies born to immigrants who are in the United States illegally are not necessarily citizens. “It’s possibly going to have to be tested in courts,” he allowed.
But Mr. Trump’s tolerance had its limits, and when Mr. Ramos challenged him, he grasped for stature, repeatedly telling the journalists that “the greatest legal scholars” agreed with him on the question, and suggesting that lesser minds sided with Mr. Ramos. “I know some of these television scholars agree with you,” he said dryly.
Despite his frustration, Mr. Trump kept engaging with Mr. Ramos, over and over, unwilling to accept the disapproval of such an influential figure.
“I can’t deal with this,” Mr. Trump said at one point. But he kept trying.
“Do you know how many Hispanics are working for me?” he asked Mr. Ramos. “O.K. They love me. They love me.”
Mr. Ramos seemed unmoved. But Mr. Trump declared a détente between them anyway, willing it into reality with words. “You and I will talk,” he told Mr. Ramos. “We’re going to be talking a lot over the years.”
Mr. Ramos, standing a few feet away, tried to interrupt with another question. Mr. Trump talked over him.
“We will,” Mr. Trump added. “O.K.”
GREENVILLE, S.C. — Donald J. Trump said in an interview on Thursday that he would soon decide whether to sign a pledge to support the ultimate Republican presidential nominee, something the South Carolina Republican Party is requiring to compete in the state’s critical primary.
Mr. Trump, the only one of 10 Republican candidates in a Fox News debate this month who refused to rule out a third-party bid, said that he expected his showing in polls to “go up 10 or 15 percent” if he signs the pledge. He added that if he did sign but lost the nomination, he would not run as an independent, a concern among many Republicans.
“I don’t make commitments and break them,” Mr. Trump said after speaking at an event here hosted by local chambers of commerce. If he violates the contract, he said, “they should sue. I would go before the court and say, ‘I’m guilty.’ ”
Disputing a Huffington Post report that suggested he was assuring local party leaders that he would sign the pledge, he insisted, “I haven’t told anybody that.”
South Carolina, the first Southern state to hold a primary next year, appears to like what it sees in Mr. Trump. A poll this week had him far ahead of his closest competitor, prompting what his aides said was a new demand that he sign the pledge.
Ed McMullen, a co-chairman of Mr. Trump’s South Carolina campaign, said that the party had sent its news release on a day when Mr. Trump was shown crushing his opposition, but that “we’re not going to be taken off message.”
That message is essentially that Mr. Trump is a winner, a theme the candidate took up in meandering but crowd-pleasing remarks before about 1,400 people.
Mr. Trump began by hailing the crowd as part of the new “silent majority.” 
He also contrasted the showing at his event with the turnout of a few hundred at a similar event this summer for Jeb Bush, a former Republican governor of Florida and a favorite Trump target.
About 700 chamber members showed up for the Trump event but so did another 700 or so voters who paid $35 a plate “because the Trump people wanted to open it up,” said Ben Haskew, the president of the Greenville Chamber of Commerce.
To the crowd’s delight, Mr. Trump offered a critical commentary on an article in The New York Times describing the adversarial view of him held by the Spanish-language news media. He then tossed the paper into the crowd.
At another point, he invited the wife of a local elected official on stage to yank his hair (“I don’t wear a toupee, it’s my hair,” he said) and mocked Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina lawmaker who is also running for president, for how little support he is getting.
Mr. Graham did not respond to the taunt. “My problems with Mr. Trump go to the substance of what he says,” he said in a statement.
Though he spoke of how “beautiful” the wall he would build on the Mexican border would be, Mr. Trump said nothing specific about what he would do as president.
He did, however, compare the beauty of the Qatar airport with that of La Guardia Airport in New York.
“I’m thinking La Guardia, oy yoy yoy,” he said to the slightly bewildered crowd.
Despite the idiosyncratic style, Mr. Trump has found strong support in the northern part of South Carolina, a surprise, according to Jim Merrill, Mr. Trump’s state director and a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives.
“You would logically think it would be along the coast, just because there are so many people here that have moved here from other places to Hilton Head, Myrtle Beach,” Mr. Merrill said.
To harness this growing support, the Trump campaign has recently added staff members in the state.
James Epley, one of the new staff members, worked here in 2012 for Newt Gingrich, who won the state primary with 40 percent of the vote. Nancy Mace, another person brought on by the campaign, was the first woman to graduate from The Citadel and lost in a primary last year to Mr. Graham.
Speaking with reporters after the rally, Mr. Trump tried to explain his use of the term “silent majority” to describe his supporters.
“So you have a silent majority in this country that feels abused, that feels forgotten, that feels mistreated, and it’s a term that hasn’t been brought up in years as you know,” Mr. Trump said. “People haven’t heard that term in many years and it’s interesting as to why, there are all different reasons. But I think it is a very descriptive term.”
The term was made famous by Richard M. Nixon when he was president. It is regarded by many historians as an appeal to white voters who believed that the civil rights and antiwar movement had gone too far. 
But Mr. Trump, whose former political adviser, Roger Stone, was a Nixon acolyte, said that he was not aware of any such echo.
“I’m not worried about it,” he said. “It’s a very descriptive term. I’m just bringing it to modern day.
“There is no better term for what’s happening.”
Mr. Trump said in the interview that for him “silent majority” had no racial undertones, and that he meant only the Republicans who might have voted for Mitt Romney in 2012 but instead sat out the election. 
The crowd at the chamber event was anything but quiet, often applauding Mr. Trump’s rollicking version of a stump speech.
Jim Yates, 68, of Laurens, wore a Trump sticker on a sombrero he had bought for the event because he approved of the candidate’s plan to build a wall “to stop not only the Mexicans but other foreigners.”
Dan Heltness, a retired small-business man from Greenville, said he agreed with a lot of what Mr. Trump said and was drawn to the fact that Mr. Trump “doesn’t take guff from anybody, including the Hispanic reporter.” This was in reference to Jorge Ramos, the Univision news anchor, who Mr. Trump criticized from the stage.
Mr. Trump ejected Mr. Ramos from a recent event for asking a question without being called on, before inviting him back.
But Mr. Heltness also said that Mr. Trump’s willingness to speak his mind no matter what “is also a little scary.”
“I’m old enough to have seen a few of these,” said Mr. Heltness, 72. “It’s an amazing thing to watch and a remarkable journey. But it also might end remarkably bad.”
One man hasn’t watched television in 25 years, gets around in a Ford Focus, and is named for a nature-loving pauper who didn’t believe in owning money, property or shoes. He is considered infallible, but often doubts his daily utterances.
The other man spent 14 years in the mirrored embrace of a television show about him, is transported by a fleet with his name on the side, and looks down on anyone who hasn’t amassed a mountain of property. He thinks he’s infallible.
In a few weeks, Pope Francis will visit our fair land, a fitting pivot from the Summer of Trump, closing out a gluttonous episode of narcissism, rudeness, frivolity and xenophobia. For all that the orangutan-haired vulgarian has done to elevate the worst human traits a public figure can have, Francis is the anti-Trump. He has more power, media magnetism and authenticity in his lone functioning lung than Donald Trump has in his entire empire of ego.
Trump may dismiss the 78-year-old leader of the world’s 1.2 billion Roman Catholics. Yeah, so he’s got his little 109-acre Vatican City, with those silly Swiss Guards. It’s the smallest country in the world — one-eighth the size of Central Park! As Joseph Stalin asked: How many divisions does the pope have? And this guy from Argentina with the goofy grin — no golf courses, resorts or even women who, sadly, are no longer a 10. He’s celibate!
Francis is the son of immigrants, invites the poor into his home, and washes the feet of the sick and marginalized. Trump wants to round up and deport immigrants, considers the poor to be losers, and is afraid of touching people.
Francis lives in a two-bedroom guesthouse, and says the measure of a person’s value has nothing to do with financial net worth. “When money becomes an idol, it controls man’s choices,” he said. “It makes him a slave.”
Trump sleeps in monogrammed satin, and divides his time among a string of mansions, towers and estates, all crusted in gold. He exults in materialistic excess with an empty sack of a soul. “Part of the beauty of me is that I am very rich,” he said.
Francis preaches forgiveness. “Never, never let the sun go down without making peace,” he said. “Never, never, never!” Trump loves nothing more than stoking feuds and hurling insults, and will not apologize. His enemy list spans three time zones.
Francis preaches urgent care of an overheated planet. Trump says climate change is a fabrication. “The concept of global warming was created by and for the Chinese in order to make the United States’ manufacturers noncompetitive,” he said.
Francis wants to build bridges. He’s reached out to Muslims, Jews and atheists. Trump vows to erect a 2,000-mile wall. “Nobody builds better walls than me, believe me.”
Francis has never been on the Internet, and doesn’t own a cellphone. Trump is sustained by nonstop social media, which he feeds with constant idiocies. “I have so many websites,” he said. “I have them all over the place.”
When the pope arrives on Sept. 22, he will draw the kind of press coverage that will make Trump sputter with envy. Trump likes to make fun of the teensy, weensy crowds that the other candidates draw. He’s about to go teensy, weensy by comparison.
Francis plans a White House visit, an outdoor mass in Washington, a speech before Congress. He is likely to join a rally on the National Mall, highlighting his stance on protecting the planet, that may draw upward of a quarter-million people.
He will visit a prison in Philadelphia, a church in East Harlem, say Mass at Madison Square Garden, address the United Nations. In a six-day visit, the pope will bring substance and self-deprecation — an appeal to our better angels. It may be just enough to wash away the grime of Trump’s ego effluence.
Trump is the demagogue we can’t stop watching, the freak show that cable television can’t stop promoting. His core message is spectacle. It’s crazy to take any of his “policy” assertions seriously, because he himself does not.
But for saying things that the darker elements of the Republican Party believe, but rarely voice, Trump is their clear front-runner — a dangerous moment for a troubled party. He’s drawn praise from ex-Klansmen like David Duke. The Daily Storm, a neo-Nazi website, urged its followers “to vote for the first time in our lives for the one man who actually represents us.”
But let’s put the papal visit in the only terms that matter to Trump — ratings. Trump has a favorable rating of about 37 percent nationwide; with Latinos it’s 14 percent. A Pew survey staked the pope’s favorability number at 90 percent earlier this year. A later poll had less support; still, numbers that any politician would kill for.
You will never hear that from the pope, a man trying to live by the humbling aphorisms of his namesake, Francis of Assisi. “Show me someone without an ego,” says Trump, “and I’ll show you a loser.” At least we know how he’ll address him.
It is no secret that Donald J. Trump, who has dominated the race for the Republican presidential nomination for the past month, has become  a reviled figure in Latin America for his inflammatory remarks about Hispanic immigrants. His statements have won him plaudits from nativists at home, but his showy candidacy has not gone unnoticed in other parts of the global village.
In France, for instance, the “vulgar” Mr. Trump was described on Thursday as “a nutcase” on the front page of Libération, the left-wing daily, which pictured him in full flow above the headline “The American Nightmare.”
Then again, because he is vying for the candidacy of a party whose strategists seemed to suggest in 2004 that John Kerry was unfit to be president because he “looks French,” disturbing the editors of a newspaper founded in part by the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre might be considered an achievement.
Mr. Trump’s paternal grandparents were German immigrants, and his remarks have been welcome summer fodder for the tabloid Bild, which ran a dispatch this week on the success of the “Trump Show,” illustrated by a photo of an enraptured crowd in Alabama.
Germany’s more highbrow press, meanwhile, has devoted quite a lot of energy to trying to explain the appeal of Friedrich Drumpf’s brash grandson. “Weird, egomaniac, racist … yet he leads in the polls; how can that be?” Süddeutsche Zeitung asked last month.
While observing that the billionaire’s candidacy is “a perfect fit” for tabloids like Bild, Veit Medick, who is reporting on the campaign from Washington for Spiegel Online, the German news site, was quick to point out that the American presidential campaign was getting far less attention than the plight of Syrian refugees in most news outlets back home.
That said, there is something of a “wow effect about Trump and his candidacy,” Mr. Medick said. “Someone like him would never even be close to being accepted as a politician in Germany, so it is an exotic phenomenon.”
“Trump exposes a lot of what Germans particularly hate about the United States,” he said, “a rather narrow-minded worldview, a brutal form of capitalism and a militaristic approach to various crises in the world.”
For Germans who have had little firsthand experience with Americans, Mr. Medick added, Mr. Trump appears to confirm their beliefs. “They say, ‘Hey, this is what we think of the U.S. and he doesn’t even try to hide it.’ ”
And what of China, the country Mr. Trump speaks of so often with disdain on the campaign trail?
After the candidate mocked the accents, and attitudes, of Chinese businessmen this week — by way of suggesting that he would “negotiate against” them better than Jeb Bush or Hillary Rodham Clinton would — a correspondent for Hong Kong’s South China Morning Post reported that while “not many Chinese Internet users picked up Trump’s controversial remark, those who did found it very offensive.”
“I feel this guy is a racist,” one blogger observed on the Chinese social network Weibo, according to the newspaper’s translation. “I would not want democracy if men like him are elected.”
Elsewhere on Weibo, Mr. Trump’s remarks about China as an economic rival drew angry rebukes. “George W. Bush must be hoping the guy could be elected,” one user wrote, “so he will be no longer the most stupid U.S. president ever.”
Other threads on the site are devoted to sharing jokes about Mr. Trump’s hair, many of which were first made on Buzzfeed or “The Daily Show.”
On Friday, one popular subject of discussion on Weibo was a Chinese news report with video of Mr. Trump asking a woman to touch his hair, to dispel rumors that he wears a toupee.
“This is not canvassing,” one blogger wrote, “but an entertainment show.”
Mr. Trump’s frequent China-bashing has, however, elicited a more angry response on Friday from the editors of The Global Times, a nationalist tabloid, which, in an editorial with the headline “China Must Have the Hawks to Deal With the Trumps,” urged Chinese officials to respond in kind.
“The West is not free of problems,” the editors suggested. “We can pick up on this. We should encourage people to speak up so as to exert pressure on the West to respond, instead of simply letting the West point its fingers at China without doing anything about it. Ideological accusations from the West come constantly, and being tolerant is not a wise strategy.”
If either Donald Trump or Carly Fiorina receives the 2016 Republication presidential nomination, it will be a rare achievement. Only once in American history has a major political party granted its prize to someone whose principal qualification was to have served as a corporate chief executive. That was in 1940, when Wendell Willkie was the Republican candidate against President Franklin Roosevelt, who was seeking a third term.
“I’m in business and proud of it,” the 48-year-old Willkie told a Nebraska crowd that spring. “Nobody can make me soft-pedal any fact in my business career. After all, business is our way of life, our achievement, our glory.”
Willkie’s political fate, however, did not ultimately turn on his record as president of the Commonwealth & Southern, a large electric utilities holding company based in New York. In the late 1930s, Willkie’s modest national fame grew mainly out of his public criticism of Roosevelt’s New Deal programs, which he said overregulated industries such as his own.
Born in the small town of Elwood, Ind., the well-read, bighearted, chain-smoking Willkie was a lawyer. Before his promotion to chief executive, he had been the company’s counsel. Until 1939, he had been a registered Democrat; he changed his party affiliation without fanfare. After Willkie made known his intention to run for president, James E. Watson, a Republican and former United States senator from Indiana, warned him that it would be difficult for a party switcher to be nominated. Watson said that in their home state, “It’s all right if the town whore joins the church, but they don’t let her lead the choir the first night.”
The chief relevance of Willkie’s background running a company seemed to be the degree to which it validated his leadership stature and his strong views on the American economy. But during the 1940 campaign the overwhelming issue was not economics but national security. Hitler’s forces were marching across Europe.
Republican contenders like Senator Robert Taft of Ohio and Thomas Dewey, a young district attorney from New York, were considerably isolationist in their views. By contrast, Willkie supported much of the president’s call to strengthen America’s defenses after the outbreak of war in Europe and to contemplate aiding a beleaguered Britain. Leaders of the Republican Party’s Northeastern, internationalist wing saw him as an answer to their prayers. In June, as Americans witnessed the fall of France, Willkie Clubs sprang up across the country. The publisher Henry Luce used his magazines Time, Life and Fortune to help turn Willkie into a national celebrity.
Soon Willkie was leading in national polls. Arriving in the convention city of Philadelphia, he boasted that he had been personally covering his travel and telephone expenses and said that if nominated, “I will be under obligation to nobody except the people.” He won the nomination on the sixth ballot, vaulting over Taft and Dewey.
Willkie, who resided in an apartment on Fifth Avenue in New York, sought to make himself more voter-friendly by returning to Elwood for his formal acceptance speech. He also patched things up — at least for the campaign’s duration — with his wife, Edith, from whom he had grown distant. Of her smiling public appearances with her newly nominated husband, Mrs. Willkie reputedly noted in private that “politics makes strange bedfellows.” In the Oval Office, Roosevelt accidentally recorded himself asking operatives to publicize what would now be called “opposition research” on Willkie’s secret paramour, Irita Van Doren, who was The New York Herald Tribune’s book editor. 
Willkie would have preferred to fight the 1940 campaign over the president’s managerial deficiencies and what he argued was the failure of New Deal economics, noting that more than a decade after the start of the Great Depression unemployment stood at almost 15 percent. But by September 1940, the Germans were bombing London. Willkie was, therefore, forced to argue that he would make a better commander in chief than Roosevelt during a time of possible global war.
Willkie issued no public objection to the president’s controversial decisions to seek a peacetime military draft and provide destroyers to Winston Churchill’s wartime government. But aghast at his sagging poll numbers, Willkie then decided to do what it might take to win; he began feigning a strong streak of isolationism.
For example, in St. Louis he proclaimed that if elected president, he would not send American troops to Europe, adding that if Roosevelt were re-elected he believed they would be sent. (After the election, Willkie dismissed another of his campaign claims, that Roosevelt would have the country enmeshed in war by April 1941, as “a bit of campaign oratory.”)
Many Americans feared involvement in another world war, and Willkie’s opportunism almost worked. In late October, The New York Times reported that his “antiwar psychology” had brought him “within easy striking distance of victory.” But that November, the issue was whether Hitler and the imperial Japanese might rule the world, and Willkie, with his business experience, seemed no match for the long-seasoned incumbent. He received 44.8 percent of the popular vote, compared with Roosevelt’s 54.7.
After his defeat, Willkie shed his isolationism as quickly as he had donned it. When he ran again for president in 1944, Republicans spurned him as an apostate. Denounced to his face during a donors’ luncheon as “America’s leading ingrate,” Willkie replied: “I don’t give a damn. You’re a bunch of political liabilities anyway.” That October, he died of coronary thrombosis at 52.
Since then, the two major parties have seldom sought out C.E.O.s for the White House. Some political consultants tried and failed to draft Lee Iacocca to run for president as a Democrat, on the heels of his best-selling autobiography, which described his success in reviving the Chrysler Corporation. In February 1992, the businessman H. Ross Perot pledged on the CNN program “Larry King Live” to attack the national deficit if he ran as an independent candidate, saying, “My strength is creating jobs and fixing things.” A Gallup poll that June found Mr. Perot running ahead of the major party candidates, George H. W. Bush and Bill Clinton. That November, after closing down (he later said he feared political “dirty tricks”) and then resuming his campaign, Mr. Perot won 19 percent of the popular vote. More recently, in 2012, Republicans nominated Mitt Romney, a founder and C.E.O. of Bain Capital who had also served as governor of Massachusetts.
Unlike Mr. Romney, the C.E.O.s running for president in this election can wear their lack of political office-holding experience as a badge of honor that shows their distance from what many Americans now consider to be a dysfunctional system. Wendell Willkie, who was caught in the accelerating crosswinds of world war, had no such advantage, and would no doubt be astonished to see how the chief executive card is now being played.
THE Donald Trump phenomenon is a great gift to pundits because it can be analyzed and criticized in so many different ways. But two shorthands seem particularly useful. First, Trump is essentially using the Republican primary to run a third-party campaign, not a right-wing insurgency. Second, Trump’s appeal is oddly like that of Franklin Roosevelt, in the sense that he’s a rich, well-connected figure — a rich New Yorker, at that — who’s campaigning as a traitor to his class.
These two elements of Trumpism are intimately connected. In American politics, the two-party system, no less than the Senate or the Supreme Court, has long served as a check on pure democracy, a means of elite control. So long as there are only two competitive parties, the political diversity of the country will be channeled through their sluice gates, and the (mostly upper-class, highly-educated, self-consciously globalist) people who run the parties will exercise disproportionate control over which ideas find representation.
This does not mean the two parties are interchangeable, a Republicrat conspiracy against the public. A clash between powerful elites can still be a very real clash, as recent Supreme Court decisions attest.
Nor does it mean that elites always get their way, even where there is bipartisan agreement. If they did, the Simpson-Bowles entitlement plan and comprehensive immigration reform would have passed many years ago.
But it does mean certain ideologies and worldviews get marginalized in national political debate. The libertarian who wants to cut defense spending, the anti-abortion voter who favors a bigger welfare state, the immigration skeptic who wants to keep Social Security exactly as it is … all these voters and many others choose the lesser of two evils every November, because neither party’s leadership has any interest in representing their entire worldview.
In certain ways this narrowing can be good for the republic. Elites can have wisdom that populists lack, certain ideas deserve suppression, and multiparty systems are more likely to hand power to extremists or buffoons. (It’s a good thing for the country that neither Henry Wallace’s effectively pro-Soviet leftism nor George Wallace’s segregationist populism outlived their respective third-party bids.)
And when the two-party system is functioning at its best, party leaders can integrate compelling third-party ideas, or even reorient a party entirely to react to a public discontented with its options.
But it has been more than four decades since the last such reorientation, and two decades since the last time a third-party candidate saw his ideas even co-opted by the major parties. Across the latter twenty years, the country has endured a series of disasters that had bipartisan fingerprints all over them. Yet the various movements that have arisen in reaction to those failures — the antiwar left, the Tea Party right, Occupy Wall Street – have yet to even unseat an incumbent president, let alone change the basic lines along which the two parties debate.
Which is where Trump comes in. So far he’s running against the Republican establishment in a more profound way than the Tea Party, challenging not just deviations from official conservative principle but the entire post-Reagan conservative matrix. He can wax right wing on immigration one moment and promise to tax hedge fund managers the next. He’ll attack political correctness and then pledge to protect entitlements. He can sound like Pat Buchanan on trade and Bernie Sanders on health care. He regularly attacks the entire Iraq misadventure, in its Bush-era and Obama-era manifestations alike, in a way that neither mainstream Republicans nor Hillary Clinton can plausibly manage.
And he’s coming at all these issues, crucially, from a vantage point of privilege — which his critics keep highlighting as though it discredits him, when in reality it lends his populism a deeper credibility. He’s the Acela Corridor billionaire (albeit tackier than most) who promises to reveal what the elites are really up to, the crony capitalist who can tell you just how corrupt D.C. really is, the financier who’ll tell you that high finance can afford higher taxes. It’s precisely because he isn’t a blue collar outsider that he may seem like a credible change agent: Because he knows Wall Street, and because he doesn’t need its money to campaign, it seems like he could actually fight his fellow elites and win.
He won’t, of course, but it matters a great deal how he loses. In a healthy two-party system, the G.O.P. would treat Trump’s strange success as evidence that the party’s basic orientation may need to change substantially, so that it looks less like a tool of moneyed interests and more like a vehicle for middle American discontent.
In an unhealthy system, the kind I suspect we inhabit, the Republicans will find a way to crush Trump without adapting to his message. In which case the pressure the Donald has tapped will continue to build — and when it bursts, the G.O.P. as we know it may go with it.
Washington — PITY Poppy.
When I went down to Houston a few years ago to eat pizza with the former president, he was his usual gracious self, speaking fondly about President Obama and his new pal Bill Clinton.
But there was one person who got dismissed with a brusque obscenity: Donald Trump.
It was at the height of Trump’s birther madness and Bush was disgusted by it.
So I can only imagine 41’s dismay and disbelief — and acid flashbacks to spoiler Ross Perot — now that Trump has popped up to block the path of the son who Poppy desperately wants to see as 45, restoring the family name after 43’s spiral.
The New York wheeler-dealer, who held a fund-raiser at his Trump Tower apartment for gubernatorial candidate Jeb at Poppy’s request back in 1997, has had a devastating and disorienting effect on Jeb’s presidential candidacy.
The Trumpster has suckered Jeb! into scraps that have ended up backfiring on Jeb and elevating Trump. And he has trumpeted a lethargic, insubstantial image of Jeb that is at odds with the perky red “Jeb!” campaign logo.
In a Washington Post story last week about the fractious relationship, Trump ridiculed Jeb’s investment banking work at Lehman Brothers and later Barclays. Trump suggested that the millions Jeb was paid were a reward for steering Florida state funds to Lehman. “Why would you pay a man $1.3 million a year for a no-show job at Lehman Brothers — which, when it failed, almost took the world with it?” Trump asked.
In a bank shot, Trump dragged in the Democratic front-runner, noting, “That’s a Hillary Clinton kind of situation.”
It’s deeply weird, but the jeering billionaire reality star seems authentic to many Americans. Trump is a manifestation of national disgust — with the money that consumed politics, with the dysfunctional, artificial status quo and with the turgid return to a Bush-Clinton race, with a less adept Bush and Clinton.
“The prospect of Hillary and Jeb as the nominees created a huge opening for something like this,” said former W. strategist Matthew Dowd. “The American public looked at it and said, ‘I do not want that.’ ”
Dowd said Friday that everyone should stop being in denial and start accepting that Trump could be the nominee.
“Do I think that Trump should be president?” Dowd asked. “No. Do I think he can be the badly needed match that burns down the status quo? Yes. Do I think he could precipitate an advent of a real third party? Yes.”
He thinks the other candidates don’t know how to deal with Trump. “They should treat him like an alien visitor,” he said, “and, like judo, use his own weight — in this case, his self-absorption and hair-trigger reactions — against him. He doesn’t care if you say he’s not a real conservative.”
Trump’s “gusto,” as he likes to call it, has thrown into sharper relief the grinding-it-out, impatient entitlement, the overthinking and overcorrecting of Jeb and Hillary.
Both campaign like they are owed, not because of their great national achievements, but because of their byzantine family dynamics.
Jeb feels he is owed because his brother sneaked in and snatched the presidency that his parents had designated for the Good Son, and because he was pressured to help W. purloin Florida in 2000.
And Hillary feels she is owed because she moved to Arkansas and then stuck it out with Bill through an anachronistic first lady job and Monica; because she was a team player and bided her time in the Senate and as secretary of state; because a whippersnapper named Barack sneaked in and snatched the presidency that should have been hers.
Funnily enough, the biggest narcissist in the race — and possibly the universe — has the one slogan that refers to the desires of voters: “Make America Great Again!” Hillary has “Hillary” with an arrow pointing at it. And Jeb has “Jeb!” with an exclamation point that represents the only fizz in his campaign.
Each one of this trio has a dilemma.
Because she is seen as domineering and distant, Hillary is most popular — and becomes most human — when she is brushed back. When she is pushed against the wall, she gets better. But how can she win if she can only convey authenticity when she is losing?
She is so coiled about losing again — carrying her front-runner status around like a Fabergé egg — that she screws up and starts losing. Her server, meant to shield her image and protect her from investigation, ends up sparking an investigation and damaging her image.
Jeb has to avoid the towel-snapping tone of his brother, because that overcompensating testosterone led to tragedy. But how does he convey strength to voters fretting that America is weak and prevent Trump from painting him as a milquetoast?
Trump knows he has a dilemma as well. His hyperbolic style and instinct for the jugular have propelled him to the front of the pack — a fact that has stunned even him. But how does he keep the colored lights going while conveying requisite dignity?
Even Joe Biden, padding around the edge of the campaign, has a dilemma: How does he honor the wish of his late son, Beau, to run when the death of Beau has left him so depleted he may not be able to run?
Matt Dowd thinks Biden would do well in this field: “Trump’s the only one who can make Biden seem disciplined.”
DES MOINES — Is Iowa for sale?
That is the perception sending shudders through the state’s Republicans, after the leader of Rick Perry’s Iowa campaign quit when Mr. Perry suspended pay to staff members, then quickly went to work for Donald J. Trump, who he had earlier said lacked a “moral center.”
The head-spinning dismount and remount came three weeks after another embarrassing episode for the state’s Republicans. A long-running scandal over under-the-table payments to a state senator to endorse Ron Paul’s presidential bid in 2011 led to the federal indictment this month of Mr. Paul’s former campaign manager.
On Tuesday, at a meeting of the Polk County Republican Party in Des Moines, the two events were linked in many conversations — as they have been all week by Iowa’s political insiders, who are hypersensitive about the state’s privileged role as the first to vote in presidential races.
Many non-Iowans resent the attention paid to the state, which will hold its caucuses Feb. 1. To deflect the doubters, party officials and the state’s ranks of paid strategists strive for an image of ethical professionalism and a level playing field for all candidates, which is now being questioned.
“I think it sends a perception that we’re pay-for-play, and if that’s the case, we lose credibility as the first-in-the nation caucuses,” said a top Republican official in Iowa. That sentiment was echoed in more than a dozen interviews with Iowa officials and political strategists, nearly all of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of offending people they would invariably work with again one day.
Mr. Perry’s former state chairman, Sam Clovis, did nothing illegal in switching to Mr. Trump, Republican officials said. But many who know and like Mr. Clovis, a college professor who ran unsuccessfully in the Republican primary for the United States Senate in 2014, accused him of hypocrisy.
In private emails last month, Mr. Clovis denounced Mr. Trump for shortcomings as a conservative. After Mr. Trump said Senator John McCain was “not a war hero” because he had been a prisoner in North Vietnam, Mr. Clovis, a 25-year Air Force veteran, wrote, “I was offended by a man who sought and gained four student deferments to avoid the draft and who has never served this nation a day — not a day — in any fashion or way.”
After Mr. Trump said he had never sought God’s forgiveness, Mr. Clovis, an evangelical Christian, wrote, “His comments reveal no foundation in Christ, which is a big deal.”
The private emails were first reported by The Des Moines Register. The New York Times obtained copies.
Mr. Clovis declined to explain why he had switched to Mr. Trump. In a written statement, he said, “Why I changed campaigns is personal, and thus I will not comment further on this matter.”
Mr. Clovis joined Mr. Trump’s campaign as a national chairman, endorsing him at a rally in Dubuque on Tuesday. Some 35 days earlier, he had emailed an acquaintance about Mr. Trump.
“Why should I not be suspicious of a person who advocates for universal health care?” he wrote. “Why should I not be suspicious of someone who says he hates lobbyists and yet has spread millions of dollars around to Republicans and Democrats to enrich himself? Why should I not be suspicious of someone who cannot come to say that he believes in God, that he has never asked for forgiveness and that communion is simply wine and a cracker?”
It is unusual, though not unheard-of, for political operatives to change campaigns, especially when a poorly performing candidate’s money dries up. Strategists have to pay their bills.
Still, Mr. Clovis’s leap to a candidate so apparently out of step with his own principles has stunned many.
“Nobody has to be wedded to somebody through an entire caucus, but to effectively resign and the next day be in Dubuque announcing you’re for another candidate, it doesn’t pass the smell test,” said Will Rogers, the chairman of the Polk County Republican Party.
Iowa lawmakers were so concerned about a potential pay-to-play reputation that the State Senate passed an ethics rule after the 2008 caucuses prohibiting sitting legislators from being paid by candidates they endorsed.
Mitt Romney, Mr. McCain and other candidates had generously compensated Iowa lawmakers in 2007, who signed on to campaigns in roles that often involved little more than making an occasional introductory speech at a rally.
It was Senate Ethics Rule 6, forbidding such payments, that unraveled the effort by Ron Paul aides in 2011 to pay a state senator, Kent Sorenson, to jump from the campaign of Michele Bachmann. Just days before the caucuses, Mr. Sorenson, who was Mrs. Bachmann’s Iowa chairman, dramatically announced his support of Mr. Paul.
Mr. Sorenson resigned from the State Senate in 2013 in the midst of an investigation by the Senate Ethics Committee. He later pleaded guilty in federal court to concealing payments of more than $70,000, and faces 25 years in prison.
Early this month, the Justice Department indicted three former Paul aides on charges of violating federal laws in making the payments to Mr. Sorenson. They included Jesse Benton, a relative by marriage of Mr. Paul and the head of a “super PAC” supporting the 2016 campaign of his son, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.
Last week, the Sorenson case was being tied to Mr. Clovis’s in political circles, though Iowans were quick to say there was no appearance of illegality in what Mr. Clovis had done.
Instead, it was a matter of seeing the state’s image tarnished. “This perception that support is for sale, to see such a blatant display of that, it’s exactly the kind of thing that’s harmful to the Iowa caucuses,” said a leading Republican official who is not affiliated with a campaign.
Other political professionals pointed out that cases like Mr. Sorenson’s and Mr. Clovis’s were rare.
“I can think of less than five instances of this in all my years,” said Steve Grubbs, a longtime Iowa strategist who is running Rand Paul’s campaign in the state. “But when it happens, it’s big news.”
The condemnations seem connected to a high state of anxiety over the Trump phenomenon. Ever anxious about losing Iowa’s status as the nation’s first nominating state, campaigns have been pressing undecided activists to get off the fence to stop Mr. Trump’s rise. Many believe if he wins the caucuses, Iowa’s legitimacy in the eyes of national Republican leaders will erode.
Mr. Perry, who called Mr. Trump a “cancer” on conservatism in July, told his staff members in mid-August that he did not have enough money to continue paying them. Jamie Johnson, a senior aide to Mr. Perry, said four campaigns had immediately tried to poach him.
“It’s a psychological two-step,” he said. “The first thing they say is how sorry they are you’ve been treated this way. Then they pivot and say, ‘How would you like to come on board a campaign that will pay you what you’re worth?’ ”
Mr. Johnson, an ordained minister, said he would not leave Mr. Perry. “I will not abandon my captain on the battlefield,” he said. “I don’t walk away from the wounded. I will stand with Rick Perry come hell or high water.”
During Mr. Clovis’s own Senate primary race last year, funds ran out. The staff of about half a dozen continued as volunteers or with reduced pay. One staff member, Kolby DeWitt, recorded and paid for a radio ad out of his own pocket.
“Sam Clovis has spent a lifetime exemplifying service,” the ad said.
It ended: “This ad has been paid for by Kolby DeWitt and not authorized by any candidate or candidate’s committee.”
LYNWOOD, California — Son muchos los monstruos y fantasmas que acosan los sueños de los niños latinos. Está “La Llorona”, quien se rumora lamenta la muerte de sus hijos. Más recientemente, apareció el Chupacabras, que chupa la sangre de animales, y quizá de algún niño o niña si no se porta bien.
Ahora podemos agregar un nuevo “coco” a las historias de horror latinas.
Su nombre es El Donald.
Desde que empezó su campaña para ser candidato republicano a la presidencia con una diatriba despiadada contra los inmigrantes mexicanos, Donald J. Trump se ha convertido en una figura de terror y maldad tipo cómic entre la comunidad latina. Es un villano con un copete flácido, que lanza amenazas e insultos que han llegado hasta el seno de las familias latinas y hasta los oídos de los niños que lo escuchan mientras cenan frente al televisor.
En Lynwood, un suburbio de clase trabajadora y en su mayoría latino de Los Ángeles, no es difícil encontrar a niños que saben quién es El Señor Trump.
Hugo, un niño de 7 años, es hijo de inmigrantes mexicanos. Es demasiado joven para entender lo que Trump quiso decir cuando llamó “violadores” a los migrantes de México, pero Hugo redujo el mensaje “del Donald” a cuatro palabras: “Los mexicanos son feos”.
El pequeño Hugo dijo que se entristeció al oír que alguien decía que sus padres eran feos. Y si pudiera hablar con Trump, le diría: “Bad luck for you” (mala suerte para usted).
Cuando Trump sube a un escenario y declara que los inmigrantes mexicanos son asesinos, sus dardos retóricos golpean en la psique colectiva de los latinos. Nos ofende, nos lastima y nos enoja.
“Temo que alguien vaya a lastimarlo”, me dijo mi hija de diez años recientemente. Y ahora es posible hacerlo, aunque simbólicamente: las piñatas de Trump se están vendiendo como pan caliente en toda la frontera con Tijuana.
En familias como las de Hugo, la campaña de Trump le habla al mayor temor de un niño: la posibilidad de que lo separen de sus padres. Hugo nació en Estados Unidos, pero sus padres vinieron desde México hace 10 años.
“Le decimos que no tenemos los mismos papeles que él”, me dijo el padre de Hugo. “Tenemos que explicarle que hay gente como Donald Trump y Arpaio”, refiriéndose al alguacil Joe Arpaio del Condado de Maricopa, Arizona, “que están en contra de que los tengamos”.
Arpaio, quien acompañó a Trump en un evento en Arizona este julio, es famoso por su persecución agresiva de inmigrantes indocumentados. Me gusta imaginarlo como nuestro Cucuy (un “coco” secuestrador también conocido como El Cuco). Bill O’Reilly, presentador de Fox News, es el Cadejo (un ser furioso con colmillos afilados), y la comentarista conservadora Ann Coulter es una Llorona que grita “¡Adiós, América!”, el título de su reciente ataque contra México, en el que se refiere al país como un “infierno del tercer mundo”.
Pero en estos días, es El Donald quien tiene más presencia en televisión. Su xenofobia ha ayudado a impulsar su campaña presidencial hasta el primer lugar del fracturado campo republicano. Al igual que algunos políticos en la República de Weimar, Trump ha encontrado a un grupo muy indefenso a quien acosar y que además ya es denigrado por una minoría rentable del electorado.
Incluso los jóvenes oyen los insultos del Donald.
“Dijo que los mexicanos son malos, que quieren vender drogas”, me dijo Alexandra Rubalcava, una niña de 9 años. “Quiere echar a los mexicanos de Estados Unidos y sólo dejar a los estadounidenses. Creo que es muy grosero. Todos deberían ser justos y tratar bien a todos”.
El padre de Alexandra la llevó a ella y a sus dos hermanas a una excursión en Plaza México, un centro comercial en Lynwood que celebra la identidad mexicana con réplicas de esculturas olmecas, una estatua de Pancho Villa y una fachada de una iglesia colonial. Le pregunté a Alexandra qué la enorgullecía de los mexicanos.
“Son muy trabajadores, incluso aunque no les paguen”, me respondió.
Rubalcava, obrero, me pidió que no publicara su nombre por temor a meterse en problemas con su empleador. Su hija no tiene esos temores. Ella me dijo que si pudiera hablar con Trump, le diría: “Está siendo injusto con los mexicanos. ¿Qué tal que usted fuera mexicano y alguien más fuera usted? Y básicamente lo están echando del mundo. ¿Cómo se sentiría?”
En tan sólo nueve años Alexandra podrá votar. Algo me dice que no votaría por los republicanos. No muchos latinos en Lynwood lo harían.
“Es que ni siquiera se ha disculpado, incluso si todas estas compañías han cancelado sus contratos con él”, me dijo Arturo, un padre y chef de 27 años. “¿Cómo puede alguien como él pensar que puede ser presidente?”
Otros consideran que los ataques de Trump revelan una gran inseguridad.
“Nosotros, los latinos, nos estamos volviendo más poderosos y a él no le gusta eso”, dijo Irene Huerta, una estudiante universitaria de 24 años. “Mientras él nos insulta, más latinos están yendo a la escuela y quieren sobresalir. Eso es lo que yo quiero.”
En otras palabras, Trump está buscando pelea con nosotros. Y eso es lo que sucede cuando atacas a todo un pueblo: añades un nuevo capítulo a su historia de cómo vencen los obstáculos. Mi familia y amigos recordarán el verano de 2015 como la temporada en la que El Donald entró a nuestras vidas a través del noticiero de Telemundo o a través de las redes sociales.
“Mi hermano me mostró el video”, me dijo Damaris cerca del carrusel en Plaza México. “Está hablando mal de todos los mexicanos”.
Una niña de 10 años como Damaris puede observar al Donald bajando una escalera eléctrica en Trump Tower. O parado en la frontera de Texas con un sombrero blanco que proclama “Make America Great Again”. Incluso si no entiende lo que está diciendo, sí puede percibir la rabia y la preocupación de sus padres y su hermano mayor.
En ese momento, sin querer, El Donald le ha enseñado a la niña el mismo mensaje valioso que está en el corazón de muchos cuentos de monstruos: Mantente alerta porque hay gente que puede hacerte daño.
Pero niños, no hay nada qué temer. Los monstruos son sólo un mito. Y siempre es posible convertirlos en una piñata y golpearlos hasta que su coraza de papel se rompa y caigan dulces.
AS surprising as Donald J. Trump’s political ascendance may be, it is not unprecedented. He is the latest in a long line of demagogues that have appeared throughout American history to point accusing fingers at blacks, foreigners, Masons, Jews, socialists, central bankers and others. What’s more mysterious are the roots of his vast insecurity — his compulsive need to trumpet his wealth, his smarts, his popularity. What is he compensating for?
When Hollywood wants us to understand a character, it gives us a Rosebud — an event or an object, like the wooden sled in “Citizen Kane,” that reflects the character’s essence. Mr. Trump’s Rosebud moment, I learned recently from a story on WNYC, happened one day in 1964, when he accompanied his father to the opening ceremony of the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge.
As Mr. Trump recounted the story for Howard Blum in The New York Times in 1980: “The rain was coming down for hours … But all I’m thinking about is that all these politicians who opposed the bridge are being applauded.” Even as a wet-behind-the-ears kid, he wanted the reporter to understand, he couldn’t abide the hypocrisy of big shots. “In a corner,” he continued, “just standing there in the rain, is this man, this 85-year-old engineer who came from Sweden and designed this bridge, who poured his heart into it, and nobody even mentioned his name.
“I realized then and there,” the budding real estate mogul and future Republican front-runner concluded, “that if you let people treat you how they want, you’ll be made a fool. I realized then and there something I would never forget: I don’t want to be made anybody’s sucker.”
Who was that sad sack in the corner? It’s worth asking, because the Trump Rosebud moment reveals more than he perhaps realizes — and not just about himself, but about the people who are swelling his poll numbers.
Othmar H. Ammann was born in Switzerland, not Sweden, in 1879, and came to the United States in 1904. He proposed, designed and oversaw the construction of the George Washington Bridge and was closely involved with others around the country, the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco among them. As the chief engineer of the Port Authority of New York and the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, he oversaw the building of the Lincoln Tunnel, the Outerbridge Crossing and the Bronx-Whitestone, Throgs Neck, Triborough, Bayonne and Goethals Bridges.
Gay Talese’s scene-painting in his front page New York Times account of the bridge opening is no less evocative, but it differs from Mr. Trump’s in some key particulars. First, there’s the matter of the weather and the general mood of the day (“the sun shone, the sky was cloudless; bands played, cannons echoed up and down the harbor, flags waved”). And the master of ceremonies, Robert Moses, praised Ammann, calling him “the greatest living bridge engineer, perhaps the greatest of all time.” The crowd applauded, Mr. Talese noted, “but Mr. Moses forgot to mention his name.”
So here is the 85-year-old Ammann, standing near the suspended span, then the longest in the world, a great triumph. “Modest, unassuming, and too often overlooked” (also Moses’s words), he sat down after that unintentional slight.
And there’s Donald Trump, then 18 years old, writing off this prodigious doer as a consummate sucker. As Jerome Tuccille would write in his 1985 book “Trump: The Saga of America’s Most Powerful Real Estate Baron,” “Donald must have made a conscious decision that day in 1964 to make sure his name was prominently stamped on everything he built.” It’s stamped on a lot of other things, too, from books to cologne.
“Great salespeople truly understand the people they are dealing with,” Mr. Trump has written. And who are the people that he is closing his presidential deal with? People who are afraid that they are being made suckers too. Mr. Trump’s angry certainty that immigrants and other losers are destroying the country while the cultural elites that look down on him stand by and do nothing resonates strongly with the less-educated, lower-income whites who appear to be his base.
“We don’t have victories anymore,” Mr. Trump told those deeply aggrieved Americans in June. “When did we last beat Japan at anything?” And, when, he said “do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity.” They are, he said, “killing us economically.”
White nationalists like David Duke have been energized to see a politician who is so unapologetically “pro-white.” Would-be Joe-the-Plumbers are inspired to see someone who talks and seemingly thinks just like they do and yet who has so much money — it gives them hope that the free enterprise system may yet deliver their dreams.
I suspect that Mr. Trump doesn’t put too much stock in his rhetoric, and that most of his followers know better, too. But those are the buttons he is pushing, and they are working well. The thrice married former casino owner is easily outpolling Mike Huckabee, a former evangelical pastor, among evangelicals; though a defender of Medicare and Social Security, his margin among Tea Partyers against Ted Cruz, who wants to dismantle many social programs, is even bigger. To tell you the truth, I am starting to worry that his poisonous message may carry him to the White House.
Then the whole world really will be laughing at our stupidity.
What a bunch of losers, they’ll say. And they’ll be right.
When Donald Trump was reaching adulthood in the mid-1960s, the United States was a less diverse place. By 1970, the share of the population born overseas had shrunk to 4.7 percent, the slimmest on record. Only about 0.4 percent of the population had been born in Mexico.
The core constituency of Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner — white, older voters like him who are more likely to believe that immigrants take Americans’ jobs, housing and health care than accept that they contribute to the economy — came of age largely at that stage in history, from the 1950s through the early 1970s.
“It was a unique period of rapid economic growth, when the children and grandchildren of Europeans were blending into a homogeneous mass,” said Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton sociologist. “That world is gone.”
This transformation provides the most convincing explanation of the runaway popularity of Mr. Trump’s proposition to kick out the estimated 11 million immigrants living illegally in the United States today and close the door to future migrants with a 2,000-mile border wall.
To these voters, a country where 13 percent of the population was born abroad and where 17 percent identify as Latino is a scary place. But what is most paradoxical about that belief is that Mr. Trump’s central proposition — that illegal immigration into the United States remains a critical problem — is actually wrong. Mr. Trump, as Mr. Massey succinctly put it, “is beating a dead horse.”
Since the housing bubble burst and construction jobs dried up, more unauthorized immigrants have left the United States than have come in. Careful estimates by the Pew Research Center show that the number of undocumented Mexicans living in the United States shrank by roughly 1.1 million by 2012, from its peak in 2007.
Illegal immigration could rebound as the American economy recovers further. But Mr. Massey and others argue that a more powerful force is pulling in the other direction: demographics, which has significantly shrunk the population of Mexicans interested in crossing the border.
“I don’t see Mexicans coming back in any great number,” said Pia M. Orrenius, an economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas who has studied patterns of illegal immigration. “The cohorts of working-age men are much diminished, so you don’t have the push.”
Indeed, 15- to 24-year-olds, those most likely to consider going north, shrank to 18 percent of the Mexican population in 2015 from 22 percent in 1990. They are expected to drop to 16 percent of the population in 2025.
The great migration boom from Mexico from the 1980s through the first half of the last decade was the consequence of “a perfect storm,” said Gordon Hanson, an economics professor at the University of California, San Diego.
Even as the United States experienced solid growth through what came to be known as the Great Moderation, Mexico suffered three currency crises in 13 years. And while growth in the American-born labor supply slowed after the last of the baby boomers entered the work force, Mexico’s working-age population was still expanding fast.
“This period won’t be repeated,” Professor Hanson said. “The great Mexican migration wave has crested.”
Perhaps the strangest thing about Mr. Trump’s appeal is that his main weapon — the border wall — is already well established. It has proved, at best, pretty much irrelevant. At worst, it backfired badly.
Border Patrol personnel have doubled since 2004, to more than 21,000. More than 650 miles of fencing has been built, festooned with sensors and backed up by drones.
These days, immigration enforcement takes up half the nation’s entire law enforcement budget. The border patrol’s budget alone has increased more than tenfold since 1970, to nearly $4 billion.
Recent research by Professor Hanson, Scott Borger of the Department of Homeland Security and Bryan Roberts of Econometrica, based on data from the Department of Homeland Security, suggests that the most recent step-up of border enforcement may have had a bigger effect than previous efforts, accounting for one-third of the downturn in illegal immigration from 2003 to 2010.
Yet the expansive border buildup has also had perverse effects, promoting the very pattern it was supposedly intended to curb.
“Enforcement increases the cost of crossing the border but also increases the payoff, because it raises the wage of those who get through,” because there are fewer of them, Ms. Orrenius noted. “So you can return to the market equilibrium that you had.”
Soon-to-be-published research by Professor Massey, Karen A. Pren of Princeton and Jorge Durand of the University of Guadalajara in Mexico, based on tens of thousands of interviews with migrants from nearly 150 Mexican communities, concluded that the odds of a prospective immigrant ultimately making it illegally into the United States remained above 95 percent until 2008.
The probability declined to 75 percent after 2008, but by then economic and demographic forces had pushed net illegal immigration down to about zero.
The border buildup did change immigration patterns, Professor Massey argued, but mostly in undesired ways. It didn’t stop immigrants from making it in. But the rising cost of entry to the United States — the higher smugglers’ fees, the greater odds of dying on the way — ensured that those who made it stayed in the United States.
What was once a pendular flow of Mexican men coming north to do seasonal work in a handful of states and returning to Mexico in the winter became a permanent community of full-fledged families that settled across the 48 contiguous states.
Mr. Trump could blame the browning of America at least in part on the wall. In a cheeky bit of counterfactual analysis, the three researchers estimated that the tightening of border enforcement since 1986 actually added four million people to the population of immigrants living illegally in the United States in 2010.
Nostalgia, of course, has no place for analysis. Analytical quibbles are unlikely to sway Mr. Trump or his followers.
They might even take comfort from examples in history of nearly impregnable walls. East Germany managed to close itself off from the West from 1961 to 1989 with an effectiveness of 95 percent.
It was expensive, though. It took nearly 30,000 guards to defend a boundary less than half the length of the Mexico-United States border. Border guards used land mines and shot to kill. They got help from the Stasi, monitoring every aspect of East Germans’ lives.
This seems like a high price to pay to stop a trickle of illegal immigrants that is falling on its own to zero.
The spotlight rarely found Ben Carson this summer. While other presidential candidates shot flaming arrows at rivals and sometimes the news media, the soft-spoken Mr. Carson seemed to struggle to be noticed. “Well, thank you,” he told moderators in the first Republican debate. “I wasn’t sure if I would get to speak again.”
But while almost all Republicans were upstaged by the bombast of Donald J. Trump in recent months, Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon whose low-key personality and celebrated medical career are the antithesis of a politician’s usual path, gained ground as few seemed to notice.
A recent Quinnipiac University national poll showed him in second place in the Republican field, and a Monmouth University survey of Iowa Republicans released on Monday had him tied with Mr. Trump. Another Iowa poll, by The Des Moines Register and Bloomberg, had the two candidates running closely within the poll’s margin of sampling error.
Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson has never held elected office, a quality that seems particularly prized by Republican voters this year. More than 90 percent of voters in the Register/Bloomberg poll, conducted last week, said they were unsatisfied or “mad as hell” with government and politicians.
And yet, in almost every other way, Mr. Carson is Mr. Trump’s opposite. He is almost professorial, where Mr. Trump is loud, combative and unfiltered.
“At the end of the day, I attribute it to the power of nice,” said Rob Taylor, a chairman of Mr. Carson’s campaign in Iowa, reflecting on the rise of his candidate.
Mr. Carson has worked hard to tame his habit of making highly provocative statements, often on homosexuality, a move that advisers said had saved his campaign after it nearly derailed amid negative early headlines. They predicted that Mr. Trump’s own tendency toward such statements, whether directed at illegal immigrants or in personal attacks on Twitter, could undermine his headline-grabbing run.
“We’ve been there and realize no matter how much the base will love you for it, people will not think it’s presidential,” said Armstrong Williams, a close adviser to Mr. Carson.
Mr. Carson’s campaign did not immediately respond on Tuesday to requests to interview him.
A little-known figure to most voters before the first Republican debate in Cleveland on Aug. 6, Mr. Carson clearly benefited from the huge number of viewers who tuned in because of Mr. Trump’s flamboyance.
Mr. Carson spoke of separating conjoined twins and removing half a brain as qualifications for the Oval Office in his closing statement — made off the cuff, his advisers say. Many commentators shrugged, but social media lit up. Polling before and after the debate showed Mr. Carson with one of the biggest upticks.
His favorable rating among likely Republican caucusgoers in Iowa was a towering 81 percent in the Monmouth University poll, with only 6 percent holding an unfavorable view.
Mr. Carson tied with Mr. Trump for the top spot in the poll at 23 percent, and pulled ahead of him with female voters and evangelical Christians.
“After more than a month of Trump winning virtually every Republican demographic group, we’ve finally got a little variation in voting blocs to talk about,” Patrick Murray, the director of the Monmouth Poll, said in a statement.
J. Ann Selzer, who conducted the Register/Bloomberg poll, said, “While there are others who are playing for the religious right, so far it’s Carson who resonates.”
Perhaps most surprising is that Mr. Carson’s appeal in Iowa is stronger than that of Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who has anti-establishment credibility and recently drew more than 2,000 evangelicals to a rally in Des Moines.
A spokesman for Mr. Cruz, Rick Tyler, said Mr. Carson would have “to withstand the scrutiny of a front-runner candidate” and “convince people he’s qualified to be president on foreign policy, economic policy and religious freedom policy.”
The money for television ads and a campaign organization beyond the first nominating states will also be a challenge for Mr. Carson. Although he raised a respectable $10.6 million through the first half of the year, most of it was from small donors, who are costly to solicit through emails and direct mail. He has already burned through more than half the total money he has raised.
Being in the shadow of the Trump supernova for much of the summer may have saved Mr. Carson from sharper scrutiny over some statements he made. On a visit to the southern border, he called for the use of armed drones to target smugglers’ caves — a major policy shift from the current use of drones for surveillance only.
Mr. Carson, who first drew political notice by criticizing President Obama’s health care law at a National Prayer Breakfast in 2013, favors repeal of the law. He favors a flat tax that can be filed in 15 minutes. The debate over global warming, he has said, is “irrelevant.” On many other issues, he has offered mostly general statements, but he plans to roll out detailed policies, including on immigration, after Labor Day.
Mr. Carson has also accused Planned Parenthood of opening most of its clinics in black neighborhoods “to control that population.” The statement was debunked by various news media fact-checkers, including The Washington Post, which gave the claim “four Pinocchios.” 
Mr. Williams, the senior adviser to Mr. Carson, disputed that the statement was akin to earlier gaffes by Mr. Carson, arguing that Planned Parenthood’s founder, Margaret Sanger, had a “racist history.”
“It’s a statement that can be argued back and forth,” he said.
The second Republican debate, on Sept. 16 in Simi Valley, Calif., will be Mr. Carson’s next major turn on the national stage. He has promised his advisers that he will take advantage of his current momentum and be a more assertive presence than he was in Cleveland. He is planning a full day of debate preparation.
“You will see more fire in him,” Mr. Williams said. “He will not allow himself to be ignored.”
“Please hold for Mr. Trump,” the voice said on the telephone.
Then he got on.
“Before we get started, there’s something I need to say to you,” Mr. Trump said.
Oh brother, I thought, here it comes.
This exchange took place nearly 18 years ago, in November 1997, long before his presidential run, and it’s worth revisiting because, well, it shows that Donald J. Trump has always acted this way. In April of that year, we had a run-in.
Mr. Trump had gone to Public School 70 in the Bronx as Principal for a Day, which in his case was Principal for a Couple of Hours. He set a new land-speed record for oafishness.
At a school assembly, he asked the fifth graders, “First of all, who likes Nike sneakers?” The entire group of 300 students raised their hands.
They should all write their names on slips of papers, he said. “I will pick 15 people and I’ll take you to the new Nike store that I just opened at Trump Tower,” Mr. Trump said.
P.S. 70 was just south of the Cross Bronx Expressway, so Mr. Trump helpfully explained that Trump Tower was in the “inner city called 57th and Fifth.” He found his own comment amusing, but wasn’t totally pleased with follow-up questions.
“Why did you offer us sneakers if you could give us scholarships?” Andres Rodriguez, 11, asked.
Mr. Trump demanded to know who told Andres to ask him that. “No one,” the boy said.
In a grand finale, Mr. Trump stopped at a bake sale being held by the school’s championship chess team, which was short on money to get to a national competition. Mr. Trump pulled out a $1 million bill and dropped it in the basket. Like all $1 million bills, it was a fake. Mr. Trump apparently kept a stash of them handy as hilarious gags. He also gave the team $200 in real money.
The sum of his two-hour visit was: coupons for 15 pairs of sneakers for 300 kids, an apparent joke about Trump Tower being in the “inner city,” a suggestion that a boy who asked a smart question must have been put up to it, a fake $1 million bill, and $200.
His principality was covered in The New York Times by Pam Belluck. A few days later, I went to the school and learned that the Trump visit had a boomerang effect: Members of the public were so appalled by his behavior that they sent enough money for the chess team to make its trip. I wrote a column for The Daily News on this turnabout.
Then came Mr. Trump’s letter to the editor of The News. “Your one-sided piece written by third-rate columnist, Jim Dwyer,” it began with great promise, followed with a quick foray into psychoanalysis: “Mr. Dwyer, because of his own obvious inferiority, does everything he can to demean my visit.”
He pointed out that his initial quota of 15 sneaker coupons for Niketown was “later raised to 20, then 40, then 60.”
In conclusion, he wrote, he knew “for a fact” that the children had a great time and “that the story written by Jim Dwyer, a proven loser, was far different from the reality of the day.”
Unfortunately, the letter was severely edited and the version in the newspaper contained none of the vituperativeness; Mr. Trump sounded as if he had dictated it under heavy, heavy sedation.
However, I pinned the seething original to my bulletin board.
And that is where it was, seven months later, when Mr. Trump got on the phone to discuss defective concrete in the columns holding up a Trump apartment house then being erected on the West Side of Manhattan. The city buildings commissioner said they could be fixed, but that if Mr. Trump added even a few more floors, the whole thing would collapse.
Before we could talk about that, Mr. Trump had something to say.
“A lot of them call me,” he said.
It was not instantly clear who he was talking about.
“I don’t take their calls,” he continued.
A pause.
“But your call, I take,” he said. “Do you know why?”
Umm.
“Because you,” he said, “are the best.”
Maybe he thought someone else was on the phone.
“You realize this is Dwyer from The News?” I asked, leaving unspoken the illuminating detail of the third-rate proven loser.
“Yes, I know,” Mr. Trump said. “And you’re the best.”
So about that weak concrete?
“It’s very common,” he said.
Actually, Donald, you’re the best.
Donald Trump’s success is no surprise. The public and the press have focused on his defiant rejection of mannerly rhetoric, his putting into words of what others think privately. But the more important truth is that a half-century of Republican policies on race and immigration have made the party the home of an often angry and resentful white constituency — a constituency that is now politically mobilized in the face of demographic upheaval.
Demographic upheaval may be understating it. From 1970 to 2010, the Hispanic population of the United States grew fivefold, from 9.6 million to 50.5 million. From 2000 to 2010, the number of white children under 18 declined by 4.3 million while the number of Hispanic children grew by 4.8 million. In 2013, white children became a minority, 47.7 percent of students ages 3 to 6. 
We have become familiar with Trump’s selling point — that he, more than any other Republican candidate, voices nativist and protectionist views in aggressive and abrasive terms, without qualm: “I Love the Mexican people. I do business with the Mexican people, but you have people coming through the border that are from all over. And they’re bad. They’re really bad.” He has vilified Latin American immigrants as “bringing drugs, bringing crime” and as “rapists.”
Not very subtly, Trump conflates American blacks with Mexican immigrants. “I know cities where police are afraid to even talk to people because they want to be able to retire and have their pension,” he declared in Nashville on Aug. 29. “That first night in Baltimore,” when rioting broke out in protest over the death of Freddie Gray in police custody, “they allowed that city to be destroyed. They set it back 35 years in one night because the police weren’t allowed to protect people. We need law and order!”
Urban gangs, in turn, provide Trump with an opportunity to link immigration and crime. “You know a lot of the gangs that you see in Baltimore and in St. Louis and Ferguson and Chicago, do you know they’re illegal immigrants?” Trump vows that after the election, “they’re going to be gone so fast, if I win, that your head will spin.”
The ease with which Trump has grasped top-dog status has provoked apprehension in the Republican establishment –perhaps most vividly in George Will’s comment on the renegade billionaire:
George Will and other traditional conservatives reject the bombastic language Trump favors, preferring a more elliptical approach in order to avoid alienating moderate voters Republicans need to win in 2016.
Trump is going directly after those Republican voters who seek to protect what some scholars call “compositional amenities” – the comfort of a common religion and language, mutually shared traditions, and the minimization of cultural conflict.
The territory Trump has ventured onto is fertile ground for his brand of demagoguery.
The Pew Research Center found in a 2012 survey that while all respondents were split, 46-48, on the question of whether “the growing number of newcomers threaten traditional American values,” Republicans viewed immigrants as a direct threat to American values, 60-32, and conservative Republicans even more so, 64-30.
A more recent Pew survey in June found that when voters were given a choice between “immigrants burden the country by taking jobs, housing and health care” and “immigrants strengthen the country through hard work and talents,” a majority of those polled, 51-41, chose “strengthen the country.” Republicans, however, disagreed, with 63 percent saying immigrants were a burden and 27 percent saying immigrants strengthened the country.
Responses to the question of whether “discrimination against whites has become as big a problem as discrimination against blacks and other minorities” reflect Republican concerns from a different perspective. This question was asked by the Public Religion Research Institute in October 2014. The results demonstrate that not only do a majority of whites, 52 percent, agree, but that this agreement is heavily concentrated among conservative constituencies, including Tea Party supporters and white evangelicals.
In 2013, well before a Trump bid was visible, the polling company Latino Decisions, which specializes in analysis of the Hispanic electorate, developed a survey measure of “openness to diversity.” The measure is based on the strength of support or opposition to 16 statements about possible consequences of immigration, including “a bigger, more diverse workplace will lead to more economic growth”; “there will be too many demands on government services”; “people will become more accepting of their differences and more willing to find common ground”; and “crime and problems in our neighborhood will go up.”
In a poll of 2,943 respondents of all races and ethnicities, conducted for the liberal Center for American Progress, the firm found that the groups scoring lowest on the openness to diversity measure were made up of white conservatives, white seniors, white born-again Christians and the white working class – all Republican-leaning constituencies.
The Trump phenomenon arguably represents a culmination of the 50-plus-year transformation of the Republican Party.
That transformation was set in motion in 1964, when Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential nominee, opposed the newly enacted Civil Rights Act. What remained of longstanding black support for the Republican Party disappeared overnight.
In the four presidential elections before 1964, according to American National Election Studies, Republican candidates had won an average of 30 percent of the minority vote. From 1964 to 2008, the Republican share dropped to an average of 6.1 percent of the minority vote. Since 1964, the Republican Party has become, in effect, a white party.
The 1964 election began the realignment from Democrat to Republican of the eleven states of the former Confederacy – including the Deep South of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi — the region most opposed to civil rights and voting rights for black Americans.
In the wake of the 1964 Johnson-Goldwater contest, the national Democratic Party became identified with racial and ethnic liberalism.
By 1981-82, in large part because of the enfranchisement of blacks after passage of the 1965 Voting Rights Act, Southern Democrats, once the hard-core backers of segregation, moved sharply to the left on racial issues. By 1982, Southern Democrats in the House voted 66 to 6 in favor of legislation strengthening the Voting Rights Act. In the Senate, every Democrat from the Confederate South voted for the legislation.
The Republican shift to racial conservatism gained momentum under the presidency of Ronald Reagan, who established a record of opposition to civil rights laws.
A sampling of the Reagan record includes his 1982 attempt to allow schools that practiced racial discrimination to retain tax exemptions, including Bob Jones University: his veto, later overridden, of the 1987 Civil Rights Restoration Act, which barred all federal funds to schools that discriminated.
More recently, since the 2010 Republican midterm sweep, 19 states have enacted a total of 27 laws designed to limit pro-Democratic minority turnout by requiring photo identification for voters, by limiting early voting, and by tight regulation of voter registration processes, among other restrictive measures.
In the case of immigration, Republican opposition to liberal reform legislation was so intense that in 2005 a Republican Congress rejected legislation proposed by its own president, George W. Bush. In January of that year, Bush promised to expend political capital to pass comprehensive immigration reform that included a path to legal status and, ultimately, to citizenship. The Republican controlled House instead passed the Border Protection, Anti-Terrorism and Illegal Immigration Control Act of 2005. That bill amounted to a direct repudiation of the Bush proposal; it included only anti-immigrant and tough border provisions. The bill passed the House with Republicans voting 203 to 36 in favor and Democrats opposed 164 to 17. The bill died in the Senate.
The current prominence of an anti-immigrant wing of the Republican Party is part of an international phenomenon. The Trump campaign represents the American iteration of hostility to third world immigration now visible across Europe, where overwhelmingly white right-wing parties are flourishing from Greece to Britain. European opposition to immigration, and the strength of this opposition on the political right, was demonstrated in a Pew Research Center study of voters in seven countries — Italy, France, Britain, Spain, Poland, Greece and Germany – that showed that voters on the right were 18 points more likely than voters on the left to agree that “immigrants are a burden because they take jobs and social benefits.”
Donald Trump, in other words, is part of a movement gaining momentum among whites across the Northern Hemisphere. The Trump campaign will serve as a measure of the strength of this movement in the United States.
Trump’s vitriol expresses the degree to which the American debate over immigration has grown ugly, even hideous. At the same time, Trump’s followers are motivated, and enraged, by what they see as a breakdown of law and order and the erosion of norms and standards they believe should be upheld. They are frustrated by the poor performance of the public schools their children attend, by cities and suburbs they believe to be under siege, by a criminal justice system they perceive as dysfunctional, and by a government they view as incompetent.
Earlier this week Trump added a new campaign commercial. It begins: “JEB BUSH’S THOUGHTS ON ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS” and displays a film clip of Bush saying “Yes, they broke the law, but it’s not a felony. It’s an act of love.” Interspersed are three mug shots: “Francisco Sanchez: Charged with Murder,” “Santana Gaona: Convicted of Murder,” and “Brian Omar Hyde: Charged with Murdering Three People.”
“LOVE?” the next screen reads. “Forget Love. It’s Time to Get Tough!”
To voters who see the world this way, Trump offers the promise that he can restore a vanished America, that he can “make America great again,” as his campaign puts it. Trump clearly finds this endeavor personally gratifying, even as his odds of winning the nomination remain slim. To his followers, the letdown of defeat could be brutal, leaving them stranded, without a candidate who can successfully capture the intensity of their beliefs.
Donald Trump is expected to release a tax plan in the next few weeks. What will it say?
It’s always risky to predict what Mr. Trump will do, but we can find some clues from his recent comments on taxes, which have spooked supply-side tax-cutting conservatives with their extensive hints about his unorthodox approach to tax policy.
First, the good news for anti-tax conservatives: He has identified three areas in which he wants to cut taxes.
1. Mr. Trump wants a middle-class tax cut.  There are many different ways to do that (for example, so-called reform conservatives have called for a larger child tax credit to benefit middle-class families with children). But in other comments on taxes, Mr. Trump has emphasized the need to simplify the tax code by eliminating credits and deductions while lowering rates. So it’s likely Mr. Trump would structure his middle-class tax cut in the simplest way possible: by reducing the marginal tax rates that apply to moderate incomes.
2. He is also looking to cut taxes on some wealthy people. “I want to lower taxes for people that are making a lot of money that need incentives,” he said in a Bloomberg interview last Wednesday. That could mean a lot of different things — he may want to cut tax rates all the way to the top of the income spectrum, or he could simply be restating his desire to cut corporate income taxes, as discussed below.
3. He says he wants to lower corporate income taxes to encourage companies to invest here instead of lower-tax countries abroad.
As Mitt Romney reminded us, corporate taxes are ultimately borne by individuals. And while economists debate exactly how the cost of corporate tax is apportioned among workers and owners of capital, the consensus view, as reflected in estimates by the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation, is that owners of capital bear the greatest share — 75 percent, by the committee’s estimates. That is, a corporate tax cut is mostly a tax cut for the upper class, not for the middle class, though to the extent it encourages business investment and economic growth, it could have broadly shared positive economic effects.
Mr. Trump has also talked about the problem of so-called corporate inversions: when American companies relocate their headquarters abroad for better tax treatment. But unlike many Democrats, who want to find a way to prohibit inversions, he has focused on encouraging American companies to bring their overseas profits home with a tax break like a repatriation holiday, which allows them to do so while paying less American corporate income tax than would usually be required.
A repatriation holiday in 2004, though, had no apparent positive effect on domestic investment. Today, the rationale for a repatriation holiday is especially unclear because American firms already have extensive access to cheap capital for domestic investment because of low interest rates and accumulated domestic profits.

Then there are three kinds of tax increases Mr. Trump has floated.
4. He has said he would abolish various tax deductions and credits. This would be a part of his effort to simplify the tax code so he can, as he put it in August, “put H&R Block out of business, knock them out, put them out of business.”
Mr. Trump hasn’t said which deductions and credits he would eliminate, which isn’t unusual for a Republican candidate for president. Mr. Romney’s 2012 tax plan emphasized extensive-but-unspecified base broadening through the elimination of deductions and credits, and Jeb Bush said in May he would take a similar approach, in each case as a way to pay for reductions in tax rates.
It’s the other two ways Mr. Trump would raise taxes that set him apart from most Republicans.
5. He has called for higher tariffs on certain imports. In June, he called the North American Free Trade Agreement a “disaster.” He also said he would induce Ford to move an auto plant back to the United States by threatening a 35 percent import tax on cars produced in Mexico. The prime goal of such tariffs would be to discourage imports and encourage companies to produce domestically. But to the extent people continued to buy imported goods despite new tariffs, the government would collect new tariff revenue.
6. Mr. Trump has called for higher taxes on hedge fund managers and other people who earn “carried interest” income, and said it’s “outrageous” how little tax some very rich people pay. Carried interest is a kind of income that arises in investment funds that have limited partners (people who invest money) and general partners (people who manage the funds and provide expertise.) The general partners receive an equity stake in the fund in exchange for their work, and generally, the fund is set up to provide a very high rate of return on the general partners’ equity if the fund performs well.
Economically, that income is labor income, because the fund managers are receiving it in exchange for their work managing the fund. But because it is treated as investment income for tax law purposes, the managers enjoy the preferential tax rates typically associated with capital income, which can be about 20 points lower than tax rates on labor income.
Carried interest gets a lot of attention because the current policy of preferential taxation is hard to justify; even if (like many economists) you believe there are good reasons to tax capital income at a preferential rate, it’s hard to make the case that carried interest income is really capital income. But the fiscal impact of taxing carried interest income at ordinary income rates would be small: about $2 billion a year in added revenue within a nearly $4 trillion federal budget.
The key question is how broadly Mr. Trump is speaking when he says, as he did last Wednesday with Bloomberg, “I would let people that are making hundreds of millions of dollars a year pay some tax, because right now they’re paying very little tax and I think it’s outrageous.” If he is just talking about the (symbolically appealing but small) issue of carried interest, his tax hikes on the rich won’t go very far toward paying for middle-class tax cuts.
But if he really wants to collect significantly more taxes on people making hundreds of millions of dollars a year, he could propose raising tax rates on capital income, or greatly curtailing the availability of tax deductions to people with high incomes, or even raising tax rates on ordinary income at the top of the income spectrum.
Back in 2000, when he was flirting with a run on the Reform Party line, Mr. Trump proposed a 14.25 percent one-time wealth tax on people with high net worth in order to pay down the national debt. I don’t expect him to resurface that proposal — such a tax is probably unconstitutional, and the politics are different now, especially because he’s running as a Republican — but his past proposal suggests he does not have a strong, ideological aversion to significantly higher taxes on the rich.
Mr. Trump has also made two key statements about the structure of the tax code that are likely to shape what he proposes.
7. He has defended graduated taxes. In usual Donald Trump style, his statements about the flat tax have meandered into self-contradictory territory. Repeatedly in interviews, he has held out the flat tax as a possible long-run reform, though he says he prefers to start by simplifying the existing tax code. But last week on Fox & Friends, he offered a major concern about the flat tax:
Of course, lack of graduation is the defining feature of a flat tax; if you are in favor of graduated rates, you’re against a flat tax.
8. He has said he wants to reduce taxes over all. In 2012, Mr. Romney ran into trouble when discussing his tax plan because of his promise of revenue neutrality. The federal budget deficit was very large, and he promised his plan to reduce tax rates by 20 percent would not reduce government revenues over all. Unfortunately, the math of that promise proved impossible when combined with his promise not to raise taxes on any taxpayers making less than $200,000.
Mr. Trump is making no such bean-counterly promises. Even as he is open to raising taxes on some individuals, he is running on a net tax cut over all.
“We’re the most highly taxed nation in the world,” he said, incorrectly, on Fox News last week. “That’s why taxes have to come down.”
This promise of a tax cut fits with Mr. Trump’s more unconstrained view of fiscal policy. While other Republicans (and many Democrats) warn about the long-term fiscal gap, he insists that cuts in Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are unnecessary. “I’m going to make us so rich you don’t have to do those things,” he said in April. Similarly, he dismisses the fiscal cost of a wall along the southern border. It might be expensive, but he will make Mexico pay for it, he says.
The supply-side branch of the Republican party may not be keen on Donald Trump’s tax rhetoric. But I strongly suspect he will imitate the supply siders in at least one way: He will say his tax plan will make us much richer, and therefore generate tax revenue that goes a long way to offset the revenue loss from cutting taxes.
WESTHAMPTON BEACH, N.Y. — When Jeb Bush stopped by the Hampton Synagogue here on Saturday, he was expected to offer a critique of the Iran deal and a short version of his stump speech to the Orthodox congregation.
But something else was on his mind: the insults hurled at him by Donald J. Trump.
“I’ll just give you a little taste of the ‘low energy’ candidate’s life this week,” Mr. Bush said, referring to the stinging taunt Mr. Trump has repeatedly used to describe him.
Mr. Bush then spent a minute and a half reeling off the cities he had visited since Monday — among them McAllen, Tex.; Salt Lake City; Denver; Pensacola, Fla.; Birmingham, Ala.; Greensboro, N.C. — and noted that, earlier in the week, he had risen at 6 a.m. to go running with former members of the Navy SEALs near the Virginia coast.
“The ‘low energy’ candidate this week has only been six days, 16 hours a day campaigning with joy in my heart,” he said.
But Mr. Bush does not seem to be radiating much joy these days.
He said last year that he would run for president only if he could do so with a sunny spirit, but Mr. Trump, the surprise leader in the polls, has turned this summer into a miserable one for Mr. Bush, gleefully ignoring the traditional rules of political engagement. 
There is the personal ridicule — continually questioning Mr. Bush’s vigor, invoking a since-retracted statement by his mother, Barbara Bush, that “we’ve had enough Bushes” in the White House, and on Wednesday suggesting that Mr. Bush should stop speaking Spanish. 
But the torment goes deeper than that. Emphasizing bluster over ideas, Mr. Trump has turned the campaign into a tabloid-style clash of personalities, heavy on provocation and insults. What little policy that has been discussed mostly revolves around Mr. Trump’s appeals to anxious white conservatives: stoking fears about immigrants, gang members and foreign countries that, in his telling, are eclipsing the United States.
It is a race, in other words, that embodies what Mr. Bush likes least about politics.
Mr. Bush is at his most animated discussing policy. And the only thing he may be more passionate about than issues is his conviction that the Republicans must become an inclusive, big-hearted party that appeals to people’s hopes rather than their resentments.
“It’s got to be difficult,” said John McKager Stipanovich, a veteran Florida lobbyist who has known Mr. Bush for more than 30 years. “Donald Trump epitomizes everything that Jeb has spent his political career trying to prevent the Republican Party from becoming.”
Mr. Bush and his aides insist that they are not bothered by Mr. Trump and how he has upended the race. But moments of irritation keep spilling out in public.
“Just to state the obvious. Can’t wait for this summer reality TV show to be over,” Mr. Bush’s son Jeb Jr. said on Twitter on Tuesday, alongside a link to a new video his father released attacking Mr. Trump.
That same day, his father, after a campaign event in Miami, seemed irked when reporters asked him about Mr. Trump.
“He attacks me every day with nonsense, with things that aren’t true,” Mr. Bush said in Spanish, before saying much the same in English: “He tries to personalize everything. If you are not totally in agreement with him, you’re an idiot, or stupid, or you have no energy, or blah, blah, blah. That’s what he does.”
When a reporter proposed asking “a non-Trump question, if you don’t mind,” Mr. Bush replied, “I’d love it.”
More than annoyance is at stake. Mr. Bush’s advisers say they believe that the relentless mockery by Mr. Trump is contributing to their candidate’s slide in the polls. In a new Des Moines Register/Bloomberg Politics poll, more Iowa Republicans view Mr. Bush unfavorably than favorably. Mr. Bush has also slipped in some national surveys, falling into single digits and well back in the Republican pack.
The campaign does not want donors and up-for-grab Republican voters to see Mr. Bush as meekly absorbing Mr. Trump’s blows, so Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, has begun to criticize Mr. Trump aggressively on the campaign trail. This week, he released a video highlighting the developer’s previous liberal views.
Still, seemingly powerless to pull Mr. Trump down, Mr. Bush and his advisers are expressing anger over what they see as the news media’s enabling of Mr. Trump by not scrutinizing his far-fetched plans, such as making Mexico pay for a wall along the United States’ southern border.
“Look, this guy’s the front-runner,” Mr. Bush said last week at a town-hall-style meeting in Norfolk, Va. “He should be treated like a front-runner, not like some kind of alternative universe to the political system.”
At a private fund-raiser the night before in Richmond, Va., Mr. Bush was even more direct when asked by a contributor what he would do about Mr. Trump. Mr. Bush said with a touch of wonder that Mr. Trump’s rise reminded him of reality TV, adding that he was the only candidate taking him on and that he hoped the news media would begin aggressively vetting Mr. Trump, according to an attendee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to talk candidly about a private event.
Mr. Bush’s aides have recently asked reporters why they will not say outright that Mr. Trump’s ideas on, to name two issues, mass deportations and trade tariffs, are fantasy.
“Our country faces serious challenges — we need a serious candidate who has real solutions,” said Sally Bradshaw, Mr. Bush’s strategist and closest adviser.
Mr. Bush’s backers note that the campaign has yet to broadcast any TV ads and that their candidate’s standing in the polls is likely to look different after they highlight Mr. Bush’s conservative record as Florida governor on the air.
As Mr. Bush himself said Tuesday, “The election is not tomorrow.”
Of course, Mr. Trump’s strength could ultimately be a political gift to Mr. Bush. If the real estate mogul remains atop the polls heading into next year and denies attention to other hard-line candidates, Republicans could flock to support Mr. Bush, the safe, well-credentialed and well-funded son and brother of presidents, to stop Mr. Trump.
But any long-term optimism is tempered by recognition that the race has become a grind, and that Mr. Trump has for now made the campaign about himself, his appeal and how far he can go.
“He has faith over time in the people and the power of his ideas,” said Mike Murphy, Mr. Bush’s longtime adviser and the head of his “super PAC.” “But he has to exist for a while in a world where every news clip is horse-race” reporting.
On Saturday, after remaining with the congregation for a singing of the hymn “Adon Olam,” set to the tune of “God Bless America,” Mr. Bush walked out of the synagogue toward his waiting sport utility vehicle. He was asked by a reporter if he was frustrated with Mr. Trump. Mr. Bush shot back, “I don’t think I mentioned his name.”
But he did not leave it there. After climbing into the passenger seat and closing the door, Mr. Bush lowered the window and, as the vehicle edged out of the parking lot, three more times demanded: “Did I mention his name?”
RIGHT now it looks very much as if the two major political parties in America are in a race to see which one can destroy itself first.
On the Republican side, Donald J. Trump not only leads but dominates the presidential race. Crude, erratic, unprincipled and unelectable, Mr. Trump, if he were to win the nomination, would do catastrophic damage to the Republican Party. But the Democratic Party, if it were to nominate Hillary Clinton, would be inviting a different kind of disaster.
One clue as to how vulnerable Republicans consider Hillary Clinton to be is the size of the Republican presidential field, 17 — the largest in a century. One explanation for this conga line of candidates is a sense that history is on their side. It’s difficult for the same party to win three consecutive presidential terms. But much of the optimism of Republicans has to do specifically with Mrs. Clinton.
Since the 2008 campaign, it’s been pretty clear that she is, to put it mildly, not a natural political talent. Mrs. Clinton lost a nomination she was heavily favored to win. Her campaign was poorly managed, plagued by indecision, confusion and poisonous infighting. During that run she showed herself to be, in Barack Obama’s withering phrase, “likable enough.”
Things haven’t gotten any better for her since. In public Mrs. Clinton often comes across as inauthentic, charmless and brittle, and she is poor on the stump. When campaigning, one senses that for her it’s an act of will rather than an act of joy. In these respects, she is the antithesis of her husband.
Mrs. Clinton’s supporters point to her experience as a strength. But that can be a double-edged sword; her opponents have some say in which experiences define her. Her first incursion into federal policy was her health care plan, which politically speaking was a disaster. It led to Republicans gaining control of the House in 1994 for the first time in 40 years.
During Mrs. Clinton’s eight years as a senator, she left barely a trace. While she was secretary of state, America’s relationship with our allies worsened, global instability increased and American influence decreased. If Republican presidential candidates are smart, they will use her experience to establish a record of incompetence.
All of this was known before the current presidential campaign cycle began earlier this year. Since then, there has been an intervening event that may well turn Mrs. Clinton from a weak candidate into a crippled one: the stunning revelation in early March that she conducted State Department business on a private email server.
We know from the inspector general of the intelligence community that at least two of her emails contained “top secret” information. According to former intelligence officials, the information on her server was most likely compromised by foreign intelligence services. She not only received but also wrote and sent information now deemed classified. And in trying to cover up her actions, Mrs. Clinton appears to have stretched the truth. The F.B.I. now has Mrs. Clinton’s private server and a thumb drive that had been in her lawyer’s possession. An investigation is underway, and some of the more than 30,000 emails Mrs. Clinton deleted may be recoverable.
And here’s an ominous precedent: Gen. David H. Petraeus, the former C.I.A. director and one of the greatest military commanders of his generation, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of mishandling classified information, a violation that may prove to be lesser than those Mrs. Clinton may have committed.
Mrs. Clinton has lost control of events as a result of an obsessive need to manipulate them. And Republicans, who already considered her something of an ethical mess, are finding she has exceeded even our expectations.
Mrs. Clinton has already suffered significant political damage. Her once formidable leads against Republicans and her primary Democratic challenger, Bernie Sanders, have narrowed. In a recent Quinnipiac University Swing State Poll, Mrs. Clinton’s favorability ratings in Ohio, Florida and Pennsylvania were very negative, while her honest and trustworthy numbers were in the low 30s. Another Quinnipiac University poll asked voters what’s the first word that comes to mind when you think of Hillary Clinton. The first three were “liar,” “dishonest” and “untrustworthy.”
If nominated, Mrs. Clinton will be the weakest Democratic nominee since Michael Dukakis in 1988. But many Republicans, presented with this golden opportunity, are enamored of a man who, if he’s the nominee, will be their weakest since Barry Goldwater in 1964. The Republican Party has a much deeper and more impressive field than the Democrats do, so they still have plenty of alternatives. But as summer gives way to fall, one of those alternatives had better emerge. The Democratic nominee will be beatable, but not if Donald Trump, unreason personified, is the unappealing face of Mr. Lincoln’s party.
“I’m using my own money,” Donald Trump declared when he announced he was running for president. “I’m not using the lobbyists. I’m not using donors.” And of course, he added, “I’m really rich.”
This self-financing has been one of the factors helping propel him to the top of the polls; many Republican voters have said they value his independent, candid style. But Mr. Trump may be changing his tune on self-financing, a switch that could provide the toughest test of his popularity to date.
His campaign added a “contributions” page to the campaign website. He recently attended a fund-raiser held by a super PAC supporting his bid. He told CBS’s John Dickerson that he actually likes the idea of people “investing in a campaign” as long as no strings are attached. And on Friday, Mr. Trump held a $100 per-person fund-raiser. He insisted it was not a fund-raiser because the money raised didn’t exceed the cost of the event. He said he wasn’t going to do this kind of event again.
He has also said he has accepted small donations so as not to insult the people who have sent them.
All of this maneuvering about fund-raising, however, is about more than just money.
Opening up his campaign to donations might provide exactly the opportunity he needs to demonstrate his campaign is organized, professional and efficient — and has broad support among the electorate and elite donors. If he can do that, party leaders may take notice.
A candidate’s ability to raise money is important for other reasons that are important to winning elections. People don’t just hand over money to political candidates. They have to be asked. And that asking requires a campaign organization focused on finding, communicating with and cultivating supporters — whether those supporters are financial bundlers, other politicians or rank-and-file voters.
How much money and where it comes from can also signal how broad the candidate’s support is within the party — and how deep. Mr. Trump often reminds people that he is leading in the polls. But as analysts often remind him, it is very early: Polls at this stage don’t reliably signal who eventually wins the nomination. Other more solid indicators at this stage include elite endorsements and a capacity to raise money.
If you doubt the validity of raising money as a signal about a candidate’s appeal to elites and voters, consider other self-financed candidates like Steve Forbes or Meg Whitman, who spent millions of their own money and lost elections.
Perhaps the best example, however, comes from comparing the Mitt Romney of 2008 with the Mitt Romney of 2012. In 2008, 42 percent of Mr. Romney’s campaign war chest came from his own bank account. He raised only $60 million from individual donors and lost the nomination. In 2012, he raised roughly four times the total amount of money he did in the previous cycle, and 99 percent of it came from individual donors. He increased his yield from individual donors sixfold.
Moreover, at the end of 2011, Mr. Romney led the Republican field across four indicators of early support, despite the fact that many other candidates had been ahead in the polls in 2011. He led in endorsements; news coverage and tone; fund-raising; and average share of polls.
Mr. Trump currently leads in two of these (news and polls). He has yet to garner an endorsement from a sitting Republican governor, senator or House member. And he took direct fund-raising off the table.
Entering the race for that kind of money, however, would not be easy. Mr. Trump currently ranks 14th among the Republican field in total money raised, including money raised by super PACs and other outside groups allied with the campaign. He has reported $1.9 million in receipts to the Federal Election Commission, all but about $100,000 from his own bank account. The campaign says the $100,000 is from small donors who sent money without being asked. (Jeb Bush leads the G.O.P. field with a total of about $120 million in the bank.)
Mr. Trump may continue to eschew money from lobbyists and special interests and condemn those candidates who take it, but a closer look at the F.E.C. fund-raising numbers reveals an interesting pattern that underscores the importance of campaign organization in soliciting donations: Candidates who are good at raising money from super PACs are also good at raising money from individual donors. And vice versa.
Mr. Bush, Ted Cruz and Marco Rubio have all raised a lot of money from super PACs and outside groups, but they are also the top three candidates in terms of campaign contributions by individual donors. Dismissing candidates who raise unlimited sums of money from outside groups as being indebted to those interests and therefore untrustworthy ignores the fact that those candidates are also the ones raising the most money from more limited individual contributions.
The explanation for this pattern may in part come from the candidate’s appeal among the electorate and within the party. But another important part is the professionalism of their organizations and their ability to find and ask the right people to contribute across a range of possibilities.
Mr. Trump’s decision to solicit and take small contributions may demonstrate that voters like him enough to put their money behind him. But it might also reveal things about him as a candidate and his campaign’s competence that we have not learned from the polls. Although voters may be drawn to a candidate who chooses to self-finance his campaign, few voters are likely to be impressed by one who has to.
He was a lobbyist who represented one client who sought funds from the federal stimulus program and then another, a group backed by the Koch brothers, who opposed it. He was a political operative who once debated a cardboard cutout of the Democratic governor of New Hampshire to protest tax rates.
And he was a congressional aide who was arrested after he brought a gun to work, then sued when he did not get it back.
Perhaps not surprisingly, the campaign manager for Donald J. Trump’s unorthodox bid for president, Corey Lewandowski, a 40-year-old New Hampshire resident, does not have a conventional résumé.
In searching for someone to steer his effort, Mr. Trump went not to someone with a depth of experience in national elections, but to someone he appears to see as a kindred spirit: a deeply ambitious, sometimes-mercurial master of self-reinvention (he has also been a New Hampshire state public safety officer and a real estate agent). And, like Mr. Trump, exactly what his political leanings are beyond a belief in small government is uncertain.
Mr. Lewandowski’s unconventional background is matched by his unconventional approach to managing a campaign.
While some candidates look for a manager who will rein in their impulses, Mr. Lewandowski channels them. He is not interested in telling Mr. Trump what to do or in being a master strategist. His greatest attribute, Mr. Trump said in an interview, is that “he knows when to speak up.”
“He leaves me alone, but he knows when to make his presence felt,” Mr. Trump said.
Mr. Lewandowski spends his days traveling with the candidate or working out of his boss’s Trump Tower headquarters in Manhattan, putting together the schedules, speaking with organizers in early-voting states and handling a staff that is mostly based elsewhere.
At one point, Mr. Lewandowski was part of the fabric of establishment Washington, working for former Representative Bob Ney of Ohio, and, later, with the Republican National Committee.
But, said David N. Bossie, president of the conservative group Citizens United, who helped connect the candidate with his campaign manager, Mr. Lewandowski “is as antiestablishment as Mr. Trump.”
He is also relatively parochial, having spent most of his life in New England.
Even now, he tries to get home as much as he can to New Hampshire, where he lives with his family, and where the many Republicans who know him or know of him decline to speak ill of him for the record, even as a few privately question whether he is playing at a level that is over his head.
Mr. Trump, who rarely brings new people into his small circle of advisers, has been content to let Mr. Lewandowski consolidate power after the departure of Roger J. Stone Jr., a long-serving adviser. Mr. Stone has said that he has taken issue with the tone that the campaign had begun to take, but that he still supports Mr. Trump.
Mr. Trump told one friend that he liked Mr. Lewandowski “because he doesn’t get emotional.”
But that is not a view that is universally shared about Mr. Lewandowski, who is known to have a temper and who had a mixed reputation at Americans for Prosperity, the group sponsored by Charles G. and David H. Koch he first represented as a lobbyist and for which he later went to work.
He held various jobs in the Kochs’ political world, including as a state director in New Hampshire and, last year, as the head of a national voter registration drive. He promoted the Kochs’ views of small government, which led to his stunt debating a cardboard cutout of Gov. John Lynch of New Hampshire on national tax day in 2010.
After seven years with Americans for Prosperity, Mr. Lewandowski moved on, leaving behind some fans who found him to be efficient and effective, but also some detractors, who found his abrasiveness off-putting.
Mr. Lewandowski is hardly media-shy — he has been a frequent CNN guest promoting Mr. Trump’s candidacy — but he is not eager to discuss himself. He declined requests for an interview.
Two of his former bosses described him as less of an innovator than an executor.
“I would have positions, and he would carry them out,” recalled Mr. Ney, the former congressman, who was ensnared in the Jack Abramoff lobbying scandal, and whose 1998 race was managed by Mr. Lewandowski.
A tall, reedy man with the features of a young Robert Duvall in “To Kill a Mockingbird,” with close-cropped hair, pale skin and dark circles under his eyes, Mr. Lewandowski began his political career in his hometown, Lowell, Mass., when he ran unsuccessfully for a state legislative seat in 1994.
A few years later, he ended up working for Mr. Ney.
“I remember he was doing the interview, and he had a frayed cuff” on his shirt, Mr. Ney recalled. “And I thought, ‘That’s just a regular working guy.’ ”
After the election, Mr. Lewandowski went to work in Washington as Mr. Ney’s chief of staff, and made headlines when he brought an unloaded gun into a House office building in the bottom of his laundry bag. He was charged with a misdemeanor. He said it was an accident, and his lawsuit, charging that he had been denied due process when his gun was taken away, was thrown out by a judge.
After Mr. Ney was convicted of corruption charges in the Abramoff scandal and forced to resign in 2006, Mr. Lewandowski wrote a letter to the court defending him.
“I know the true Bob Ney,” Mr. Lewandowski wrote. Years later, Mr. Ney said, his parents still ask about Mr. Lewandowski, who was seen as a member of their family.
In 2002, Mr. Lewandowski managed the re-election effort of Senator Bob Smith of New Hampshire, who had a complicated history with the Republican Party and who had switched his affiliation to independent when he ran for president for a short while in 2000.
By the time Mr. Lewandowski joined the re-election effort, establishment Republicans were trying replace Mr. Smith with Representative John E. Sununu, the son of a former governor.
“To the best of my knowledge, he had never managed anything at the level of the Senate prior to me,” Mr. Smith said, recalling Mr. Lewandowski. “We lost, but I don’t blame him for that.”
During that race, the Smith camp raised questions about Mr. Sununu’s credibility as a supporter of Israel (he has a Lebanese background), criticisms that the congressman’s allies saw as having anti-Arab undertones.
After Mr. Smith had lost, and with Mr. Lewandowski’s relationship to the party establishment deeply frayed, he held different jobs, including working with the New Hampshire Department of Public Safety.
He then became a lobbyist with the government affairs firm Schwartz Communications in Massachusetts, taking on some clients interested in the stimulus spending program proposed by President Obama and enacted by congressional Democrats to help the economy recover from the financial meltdown of 2008.
Another client was Americans for Prosperity, which has criticized the stimulus spending.
Mr. Lewandowski worked closely with the group as it tried to establish a foothold in New Hampshire, and eventually went to work for it full time.
Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity, said in a statement that Mr. Lewandowski was “valued” and that “he left on good terms.”
But he also had his enemies, who recall some controversies around his tenure, including over his efforts to oversee the group’s national voter registration drive for the 2014 midterm election, according to people who spoke on the condition of anonyity to discuss internal business.
Despite Mr. Lewandowski’s connections to the Koch brothers’ world, Mr. Trump, like several other candidates, has not been invited to the group’s recent donor network gatherings.
Mr. Trump has told friends he was surprised by the snub, describing the Kochs as “good friends.”
As for his campaign manager, Mr. Trump insisted that he had to woo Mr. Lewandowski away from Americans for Prosperity. But even then, he suggested, he made clear that he was going to decide for himself how he was going to run.
“This is going to be a different kind of campaign,” he told his new hire.
Is Donald Trump deliberately using offensive rhetoric to fan fury from the far right?
Yes, says The Times’s editorial page editor, Andrew Rosenthal, who explains why this is dangerous — and irresponsible.
Mr. Rosenthal also talks about his thoughts on how the news media might responsibly cover the candidate who, Mr. Rosenthal says, is “straightforwardly a racist, sexist, homophobic and xenophobic person.”
Susan Lehman is host.
This past week, in an effort to make his candidacy for the Republican presidential nomination seem less somnolent, Jeb Bush released an ad attacking Donald J. Trump. Using years-old footage of interviews with Mr. Trump, the ad intends to show us that the Republican presidential campaign’s current front-runner is an ideological phony — an espouser of liberal beliefs who has variously declared himself in favor of abortion rights, single-payer health care and more aggressively taxing the very rich. (This last position is one he hasn’t even tried to conceal, given that as recently as two weeks ago, he appeared on “Face the Nation” arguing that current tax policy left hedge funders “getting away with murder.”)
The ad’s overarching accusation, though, is that Mr. Trump is from New York. Within the span of one minute and 21 seconds we are reminded of where he comes from three times, his provenance presumably his greatest sin, New York the incubator of so many fuzzy-headed ideas. “I lived in New York City and Manhattan my whole life, O.K. So my views are a little bit different than if I lived in Iowa,” Mr. Trump is shown declaring both at the beginning of the ad and at the end. In between, he expresses his admiration for Hillary Rodham Clinton. “I live in New York; she lives in New York,” he says, and you know how it is, the implication follows, “if we’re not bumping into each other at Per Se, we’re hugging on a lawn at a Planned Parenthood fund-raiser in Sagaponack.” 
New York is of course much more of a liability for Mr. Trump than it is for the former secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton, who is a Democrat, is not a native and officially lives in Westchester County. (And perhaps not an issue either for her opponent Bernie Sanders, who, though he hails from Brooklyn, is singularly associated with Vermont — accent notwithstanding.) In the past 115 years, only two presidents are closely associated with New York City, both of them bearing the name Roosevelt. During the 2008 presidential cycle, Rudolph W. Giuliani had an early and considerable lead in the Republican field before failing to secure a single victory in a primary or a caucus. As Tom McCarthy recently put it in a column in The Guardian, by the time voters really started paying attention, they discovered that “Giuliani was a thrice-married, formerly pro-choice, kind of rude person from New York.” 
Mr. Trump is arguably a more famous thrice-married kind of rude person from New York — reality television and social media have helped him extend the brand — but presidential politics have not typically favored other wealthy if more genteel prospects from New York. In 1964, Nelson A. Rockefeller lost the Republican nomination to Barry Goldwater, the conservative populist from Arizona, in a moment widely considered to have augured the culture wars. Rockefeller, the Eastern establishment candidate, whose bid for the presidency four years earlier resulted in a compromise agreement over the Republican platform known as the Treaty of Fifth Avenue, was perceived as too rich, too urban and therefore too morally dubious. 
By 1964 his first marriage had ended; he soon married a divorced woman (Margaretta Murphy, or Happy) who drew comparisons to Wallis Simpson. A 1960s documentary about the presidential race, based on the reporter Theodore White’s series of books, “The Making of the President,” has a narrator earnestly intoning the consequences of this action on Rockefeller’s aspirations: “To men and women of dogmatic morality, this appears the manners of Manhattan — Babylon of the East.” (Nearly a century earlier, Samuel J. Tilden, the consummate New York philanthropist and Democrat, was ultimately defeated — though he won the popular vote — by Rutherford B. Hayes, a Republican, who accused Tilden of, among other things, being a drunken syphilitic. Their battle was the Bush v. Gore of its day.)
In the early 1970s, several years after Rockefeller’s defeat, John V. Lindsay, another patrician New Yorker, unsuccessfully sought the presidency; he, too, seemed out of sync. In a 1971 article in The New York Times exploring Lindsay’s chances of securing the Democratic nomination (by then he had abandoned the Republican Party), William James, chairman of Maryland’s State Democratic Committee, offered, correctly, that the candidate would appeal only to “the hard-core urban area” and would “stop there.” Lindsay, he said, “was like a stranger walking in from outer space.” 
The counterargument to be made today is that New York is hardly Gomorrah — or Berkeley. It is home to legions of well-off white families rigorously procreating and buying S.U.V.s, and to a progressive mayor with plummeting approval ratings. More important, it is home to the power base of the conservative movement, claiming Rupert Murdoch and David Koch within its borders. Fox News, is, for the most part, broadcast from Midtown Manhattan, not from a studio in a mythical heartland. The next time someone asks Donald Trump if he is a real Republican, he might answer, “Of course I am. Don’t you know where I live?”
Quiet conversations have begun in recent weeks among some of the Republican Party’s biggest donors and normally competing factions, all aimed at a single question: How can we stop Donald Trump?
Republican strategists and donors have assembled focus groups to test negative messages about Mr. Trump. They have amassed dossiers on his previous support for universal health care and higher taxes. They have even discussed the creation of a “super PAC” to convince conservatives that Mr. Trump is not one of them.
But the mammoth big-money network assembled by Republicans in recent years is torn about how best to defuse the threat Mr. Trump holds for their party, and haunted by the worry that any concerted attack will backfire.
In phone calls, private dinners and occasional consultations among otherwise rivalrous outside groups, many have concluded that Mr. Trump’s harsh manner and continued attacks on immigrants and women were endangering the party’s efforts to compete in the general election. Yet after committing hundreds of millions of dollars to shape the Republican primary contest and groom a candidate who can retake the White House, the conservative donor class is finding that money — even in an era of super PACs and billion-dollar presidential campaigns — is a devalued currency in the blustery, post-policy campaign fashioned by Mr. Trump, driven not by seven-figure advertising campaigns but by Twitter feuds and unending free publicity.
“People are somewhat perplexed by the whole Trump phenomenon,” said Ray Washburne, a Dallas businessman who is Gov. Chris Christie’s finance chairman.
So far, according to the Campaign Media Analysis Group and a Republican media buyer, there has barely been any advertising targeting Mr. Trump. Out of $90 million worth of ads reserved or bought in the Republican primary, just $1,300 has been spent attacking Mr. Trump — an ad in Spanish that ran briefly in California that was sponsored by a Spanish-language television network.
The Club for Growth, which has spent millions of dollars on feisty intraparty campaigns attacking Republican candidates who deviate from conservative economic orthodoxy, appears closest to moving against Mr. Trump, soliciting advice from among its members and researching potential lines of attack. 
The group helped torpedo the populist presidential bid of Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, in 2008, and has long been a thorn in the side of Republican leaders — making it, many Republicans believe, a credible foil to Mr. Trump.
But the club’s president, David McIntosh, said his group was still grappling with how to handle the protean Mr. Trump, whose appeal is based less on policy positions than on tapping into the raw anger of Republican voters against Washington leaders. Mr. McIntosh said some members had told him they agreed with Mr. Trump’s critique of Washington’s ineffectual establishment even if they did not regard him as very principled.
“Part of our research has been why would a conservative Republican voter find this appealing,” Mr. McIntosh said. “A wonkish explanation that trade is actually good for the country probably won’t assuage them.”
In interviews, several savvy and typically confident Republican donors and strategists seemed puzzled about how to topple Mr. Trump, increasingly worried about the feelings he has stirred among the activist base and uneasy about the consequences for the party.
Andy Sabin, a New York supporter of Jeb Bush, said the question of what to do about Mr. Trump had come up repeatedly on the Hamptons fund-raising circuit this summer, as what seemed like a summer romance by disenchanted conservatives blossomed into a full-blown insurgency.
“He’s been a topic, and he obviously disgusts a lot of people, because he’s been vile,” said Mr. Sabin, who is also a donor to American Crossroads, the party’s leading super PAC. “But he’s also been able to bring out what people feel about their government.”
The cost of an anti-Trump campaign would be daunting: Reshaping opinions about Mr. Trump, a candidate with universal name recognition and a knack for garnering free airtime and column inches, could cost as much as $20 million. A sustained campaign aimed at Fox News viewers could cost $2 million a week, one Republican consultant working for a rival candidate estimated, while a more targeted effort, aimed at Iowa caucus-goers later this fall, would require as much as $10 million.
And there is no certainty of success: A group identified with the Republican establishment would risk ending up in a war with Mr. Trump, while a new group — such as a political nonprofit to which other donors and organizations could secretly funnel cash — would play into Mr. Trump’s comments about lobbyists and corporations scheming to prop up his rivals. Mr. Trump also has begun to preview such attacks.
This week, he lambasted both Karl Rove, a Crossroads co-founder, and the Club for Growth, which he said once asked him for a million-dollar contribution. (A club spokesman said that Mr. Trump asked for the meeting with Mr. McIntosh, which took place in May.)
“Many Super Pacs, funded by groups that want total control over their candidate, are being formed to ‘attack’ Trump,” Mr. Trump said Tuesday on Twitter. “Remember when u see them.”
Some Republican Party leaders continued to hold out hope that the improvisational Mr. Trump would prove unable to convert his popularity and name recognition into a campaign organization capable of winning primaries next year, as the lazy summer months give way to a grinding ground campaign in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina. But several donors and strategists acknowledged that their earliest hope — that Mr. Trump would fade away on his own — was looking less likely every day.
“Obviously the discussions have changed to say, ‘He’s someone who’s going to be there right to the end,’ ” said Ronald Weiser, a real estate developer and former chairman of the Michigan Republican Party.
While many Republican leaders and donors are convinced that something must be done to stop the billionaire Manhattan developer, few seem ready to take him on directly, given Mr. Trump’s tendency to counterattack viciously.
Allies of Mr. Bush, arguing that Mr. Trump helps the former Florida governor by stealing voters and attention from other anti-establishment candidates, remark that perhaps donors to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, or Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, might take the lead in financing a Trump takedown. 
Mr. Walker’s supporters, in turn, suggest that the work might best be handled by a super PAC with plenty of cash but an underperforming candidate — like Rick Perry, the former Texas governor.
“Everybody’s got different agendas and different conflicts,” said Austin Barbour, an adviser to a group of super PACs, known as Opportunity and Freedom, that have raised more than $17 million to back Mr. Perry, whose own campaign is floundering and bankrupt. “Our No. 1 priority is to go take this fight to support Governor Perry. There’s a lot of time here.”
The biggest outside groups not tied to a specific candidate — the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the political network of Charles G. and David H. Koch and the Rove-founded American Crossroads — are for now staying clear, although the Koch organizations have conspicuously snubbed Mr. Trump in several ways, declining to invite him to their policy forums or give him access to their state-of-the-art voter database.
Among Republican strategists not working for the campaign, the emerging consensus was that voters would need to be persuaded by the candidates themselves, not by super PACs. Yet candidates like Mr. Cruz have not only avoided criticizing Mr. Trump, but have praised him, hoping to position themselves to pick up his supporters should Mr. Trump falter.
One Republican strategist described “a sigh of relief around town that the Bush campaign finally did something,” referring to Mr. Bush’s decision this week to release a video of Mr. Trump looking askance at Iowa, describing himself as “very pro-choice,” and calling for tax increases on the rich.
For the last few years, a small but prominent group of conservative writers and thinkers has urged the Republican party to rethink its economic agenda with a greater focus on the needs of the middle class. The so-called reform conservatives have criticized the G.O.P.’s economic prescription of cutting entitlement programs and tax rates (especially on high earners) as unresponsive to the concerns of workers earning stagnant wages.
“Reform conservatism is based on a recognition that the American economy has not served middle-income people well, not just since the crisis of 2008 but at least since the year 2000,” said David Frum, the prominent Canadian-American conservative journalist and former speechwriter for George W. Bush who serves as a senior editor at The Atlantic.
Though the reform conservatives dissent from conservative tax orthodoxy, they are not necessarily moderates. For example, many of them (including Mr. Frum) advocate a significantly more restrictive immigration policy, arguing that high immigration levels, particularly for low-skilled workers, cut against the economic interests of ordinary Americans.
Hmm.
There happens to be a Republican candidate for president who wants less immigration but also thinks it’s “outrageous” how little tax some rich people pay, and he’s doing pretty well in the polls. Is Donald Trump the candidate the reformocons have been waiting for?
“No,” Mr. Frum said.
But.
“He may be the jolt that the Republican Party needs to compromise its pro-plutocratic agenda,” he said.
It’s an awkward thing: The reform conservative movement, to the extent it exists, is pointy-headed, technocratic and soft-spoken. Mr. Trump is none of those things. But his campaign has helped bolster a key argument from the reformocons: that many Republican voters are not devotees of supply-side economics and are more interested in the right kind of government than in a simply smaller one.
“There were a lot of people who wanted to think the Tea Party is a straightforward libertarian movement,” said Reihan Salam, the executive editor of National Review. But he said Mr. Trump’s ability to lead the polls while attacking Republicans for wanting to cut entitlement programs showed that conservative voters are open to “government programs that help the right people.”
Mr. Frum attributes most Republican candidates’ continued devotion to cuts in taxes and entitlements to the desires of a Republican donor class that benefits directly from lower tax rates and indirectly, through lower labor costs, from high immigration. Mr. Trump, as Mr. Trump will happily tell you, does not need rich donors’ money, and the polls show that Republican voters have not yet punished him for his praise of single-payer health care (in other countries) or his past support for a wealth tax.
“Trump served notice that the donors’ platform isn’t even acceptable inside the party,” Mr. Frum said.
Of course, there are reasons the reformocons have not lined up to support Mr. Trump. Just because he has identified some of the same problems as the reformocons does not mean they agree on solutions.
“I would not characterize Mr. Trump’s campaign so far as a policy-driven campaign to help the middle class,” said Michael Strain, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute who has urged conservatives to adopt more creative solutions to address the weak job market. He took particular issue with Mr. Trump’s support for higher tariffs and his apparent disregard for long-term deficits.
Even those reformocons who are immigration hawks do not necessarily find much to love in Mr. Trump’s agenda. In an email, Yuval Levin, the editor of the conservative policy journal National Affairs, wrote that Mr. Trump “has confounded what I take to be some reasonable ideas (like a tempering of future immigration rates) with what I take to be some very unreasonable ideas (like deporting 12 million people) in a way that doesn’t help the more reasonable ones get heard.”
There are also, of course, the insults. Mr. Salam favors a more restrictive immigration policy and would like to see more candidates speaking thoughtfully about issues of assimilation and integration. But he adds, “When it seems like you’re demonizing that population, that’s completely counterproductive.”
Still, Mr. Trump could be a useful stalking horse for the reformocons even if they think he has bad policy ideas, says a lot of offensive things, can’t win an election and wouldn’t be a good president.
“If Trump isn’t offering workable solutions but he is identifying problems that others have ignored, the hope is some more policy-focused, more governance-focused competitor will make use of the opportunity that Trump has publicized,” Mr. Frum said.
In an analogy that won’t make anyone very comfortable, he said Mr. Trump could be useful in the same way George Wallace was in 1968: “Wallace talked about a lot of issues, many of them pretty dismaying, but he also seized on the crime issue. Crime was rising fast, and it was not an issue that respectable politicians wanted to talk about. The result was that Richard Nixon stole his issue and deracialized it.”
Well, not exactly. Pressed on whether Nixon’s anticrime language could really be considered deracialized, Mr. Frum argued Nixon “diminished its racialism and incorporated it into something like a workable policy agenda.”
If Mr. Trump is Wallace in this analogy, then the reform conservatives are still waiting for their Nixon. Whether that’s a hopeful prospect or an alarming one is up to you.
To the Editor:
Re “Donald Trump, Traitor to His Class” (column, Aug. 30):
Ross Douthat’s analogy between Donald Trump and Franklin D. Roosevelt is off-base.
While both Mr. Trump and F.D.R. had great wealth, the similarity ends there. By the time he ran for president in 1932, Roosevelt had served as assistant secretary of the Navy, an elected state senator and governor of the most populous state in the nation. He had already implemented pathbreaking ideas in the fields of conservation and unemployment relief. He had surrounded himself with serious and innovative thinkers (including his wife, Eleanor).
When campaigning for office in the depths of the Depression, F.D.R. did not fire up one part of his base by demonizing other poor, hard-working people — as Mr. Trump has done, to his shame.
To paraphrase Lloyd Bentsen’s 1988 debate remark on Dan Quayle and John Kennedy: As a historian, I have studied F.D.R., and Donald Trump is no F.D.R.
ROBERT SHAFFER
Mechanicsburg, Pa.
The writer is a professor of history at Shippensburg University of Pennsylvania.
So Jeb Bush is finally going after Donald Trump. Over the past couple of weeks the man who was supposed to be the front-runner has made a series of attacks on the man who is. Strange to say, however, Mr. Bush hasn’t focused on what’s truly vicious and absurd — viciously absurd? — about Mr. Trump’s platform, his implicit racism and his insistence that he would somehow round up 11 million undocumented immigrants and remove them from our soil.
Instead, Mr. Bush has chosen to attack Mr. Trump as a false conservative, a proposition that is supposedly demonstrated by his deviations from current Republican economic orthodoxy: his willingness to raise taxes on the rich, his positive words about universal health care. And that tells you a lot about the dire state of the G.O.P. For the issues the Bush campaign is using to attack its unexpected nemesis are precisely the issues on which Mr. Trump happens to be right, and the Republican establishment has been proved utterly wrong.
To see what I mean, consider what was at stake in the last presidential election, and how things turned out after Mitt Romney lost.
During the campaign, Mr. Romney accused President Obama of favoring redistribution of income from the rich to the poor, and the truth is that Mr. Obama’s re-election did mean a significant move in that direction. Taxes on the top 1 percent went up substantially in 2013, both because some of the Bush tax cuts were allowed to expire and because new taxes associated with Obamacare kicked in. And Obamacare itself, which provides a lot of aid to lower-income families, went into full effect at the beginning of 2014.
Conservatives were very clear about what would happen as a result. Raising taxes on “job creators,” they insisted, would destroy incentives. And they were absolutely certain that the Affordable Care Act would be a “job killer.”
So what actually happened? As of last month, the U.S. unemployment rate, which was 7.8 percent when Mr. Obama took office, had fallen to 5.1 percent. For the record, Mr. Romney promised during the campaign that he would get unemployment down to 6 percent by the end of 2016. Also for the record, the current unemployment rate is lower than it ever got under Ronald Reagan. And the main reason unemployment has fallen so much is job growth in the private sector, which has added more than seven million workers since the end of 2012.
I’m not saying that everything is great in the U.S. economy, because it isn’t. There’s good reason to believe that we’re still a substantial distance from full employment, and while the number of jobs has grown a lot, wages haven’t. But the economy has nonetheless done far better than should have been possible if conservative orthodoxy had any truth to it. And now Mr. Trump is being accused of heresy for not accepting that failed orthodoxy?
So am I saying that Mr. Trump is better and more serious than he’s given credit for being? Not at all — he is exactly the ignorant blowhard he seems to be. It’s when it comes to his rivals that appearances can be deceiving. Some of them may come across as reasonable and thoughtful, but in reality they are anything but.
Mr. Bush, in particular, may pose as a reasonable, thoughtful type — credulous reporters even describe him as a policy wonk — but his actual economic platform, which relies on the magic of tax cuts to deliver a doubling of America’s growth rate, is pure supply-side voodoo.
And here’s what’s interesting: all indications are that Mr. Bush’s attacks on Mr. Trump are falling flat, because the Republican base doesn’t actually share the Republican establishment’s economic delusions.
The thing is, we didn’t really know that until Mr. Trump came along. The influence of big-money donors meant that nobody could make a serious play for the G.O.P. nomination without pledging allegiance to supply-side doctrine, and this allowed the establishment to imagine that ordinary voters shared its antipopulist creed. Indeed, Mr. Bush’s hapless attempt at a takedown suggests that his political team still doesn’t get it, and thinks that pointing out The Donald’s heresies will be enough to doom his campaign.
But Mr. Trump, who is self-financing, didn’t need to genuflect to the big money, and it turns out that the base doesn’t mind his heresies. This is a real revelation, which may have a lasting impact on our politics.
Again, I’m not making a case for Mr. Trump. There are lots of other politicians out there who also refuse to buy into right-wing economic nonsense, but who do so without proposing to scour the countryside in search of immigrants to deport, or to rip up our international economic agreements and start a trade war. The point, however, is that none of these reasonable politicians is seeking the Republican presidential nomination.
The most important art events of the coming season are likely to be of a kind that don’t appear on lists like this, because they aren’t announced far in advance. Their medium is surprise. I hope this year they’ll include guerrilla actions by groups like Gulf Labor and Black Lives Matter aimed at shaking up a politically torpid art industry. I fear they’ll include further assaults by ISIS on art itself. Constructive or destructive, these examples of politically motivated activism have one thing in common: They acknowledge, as our corporate-minded museums and art schools don’t, that art is more than just market fodder. It is, or can be, a moral force.
Museums are valuable places, in part because they allow people to feel that force. For this reason, the arrival of a new or revised institution is always an occasion for hope, and there are several such occasions ahead. The debut this winter of a new Diller Scofidio + Renfro home for the Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive, followed by the reopening of an expanded San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, should inject some needed energy into the Bay Area’s demoralized, gentrification-pressed art scene. In New York, the spring will find the International Center of Photography, which lost its uptown lease, taking up quarters on the Bowery and the Metropolitan Museum beginning its tenancy of the Whitney’s Marcel Breuer building. Finally, on Sept. 20, the multibillionaire Eli Broad will inaugurate a public shrine to his personal collection in Los Angeles.
The Met Breuer has aroused much advance curiosity. One thing is sure: it will bow in a beautiful way with a retrospective of the South Asian artist Nasreen Mohamedi. Born in Pakistan in 1937, Mohamedi traveled widely before settling in New Delhi where, until her death in 1990, she produced abstract paintings and drawings, architectural photographs and poetry-filled diaries. Her work is both emotion-charged and empyreal. It’s about how art can simultaneously get you through and lift you up.
I anticipate with pleasure surveys of four other artists who had a utopian bent. Agnes Martin, with whom Mohamedi is sometimes compared, is one, with a London retrospective at the Tate Modern through Oct. 11, an engagement at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in April 2016 and a visit to New York that fall. The great Alma Thomas, whose abstract paintings channeled pop songs and flowers from her Washington studio will have the spotlight at the Frances Young Tang Teaching Museum and Art Gallery at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. (Feb. 6). And Martin Wong, painter of New York tenements, smooching firefighters and celestial messages, will be center stage, where he belongs, at the Bronx Museum of the Arts (Nov. 5).
Wong, who came of age in the 1960s and died of AIDS in 1999, was deeply, unreconstructedly countercultural. So was the cellist Charlotte Moorman, muse to Nam June Paik and proactivist champion of all things fringe. “A Feast of Astonishments: Charlotte Moorman and the Avant-Garde, 1960s-1980s” at the Mary and Leigh Block Museum of Art at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill. (Jan. 15), will be a tribute to her. Elsewhere, three history-minded group exhibitions will span the era she helped shape. “Leap Before You Look: Black Mountain College, 1933-1957” at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston (Oct. 10), focuses on a school based on an ideal of communal art-making outside the direct reach of commerce. “For a New World to Come: Experiments in Japanese Art and Photography, 1968-1979” at Grey Art Gallery, N.Y.U., in progress, and at Japan Society Gallery (Oct. 9), documents the radical response of artists to social upheaval and psychic violence during and after the Vietnam War. And “Hippie Modernism: The Struggle for Utopia” at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis (Oct. 24) will, with luck, suggest how such a response could include a serious attempt to redesign everyday life along spiritual lines.
As we constantly learn from the news media, spirituality, packaged as religion, is, for better and worse, potent stuff, as will be demonstrated in two of the season’s outstanding sculpture displays, “Kongo: Power and Majesty” at the Metropolitan Museum of Art starting Friday and “Kamakura: Realism and Spirituality in the Sculpture of Japan” at Asia Society Museum (Feb. 9). Both will be masterpiece shows about art’s interlocked spiritual and political functions. On this subject, though, I’m just as interested in seeing “Sandow Birk: American Qur’an” at the Orange County Museum of Art, Newport Beach, Calif. (Nov. 7), consisting of a monumental version of the Quran as transcribed and illustrated by a contemporary Southern California artist.
The work has drawn some fire — Mr. Birk is not a Muslim; he uses a script based on urban street graffiti — but it does something that interesting art does: It rewrites the past on the page of the present so we can see it fresh. Other shows will do the same in other ways. I look forward to a rethinking of Latin American art history in “Impressionism and the Caribbean: Francisco Oller and His Transatlantic World” at Brooklyn Museum (Oct. 2); and to seeing the subject of race filtered through the distorting prism of Modernism in a 10-year survey of Adam Pendleton’s work at the Contemporary Arts Center in New Orleans (April 1). At MoMA, the conceptualist Walid Raad will chip away at myths surrounding the so-called Arab world. In a solo show by the politically clairvoyant filmmaker Laura Poitras, at the Whitney, I expect to see the American present turn into the future before my eyes (Feb. 5).
I’d like to make it to Bamako, Mali, this fall for the Pan-African photography biennial “Rencontres de Bamako” (Bamako Encounters), a glorious event that returns after having been delayed by political turbulence. I’ll certainly be traveling to Williamstown, Mass., in January for the show called “African Art Against the State” organized by Michelle M. Apotsos at the Williams College Museum. Much of the work will be unfamiliar, which is always good. And the theme is apt. With institutional racism and economic inequality rock-solid at home and across the globe, “against the state” seems the only logical position to take.
WASHINGTON — Republicans are growing increasingly concerned that Donald J. Trump’s inflammatory language is damaging the party, fearing that his remarks are hardening the tone of other candidates on racial issues in ways that could repel the voters they need to take back the White House.
Some party leaders worry that the favorable response Mr. Trump has received from the Republican electorate is luring other candidates to adopt or echo his remarks. It is a pattern, they say, that could tarnish the party’s image among minority voters.
“Any candidate that allows Trump to dictate the conversation about what they’re campaigning on is going to be harmed irreparably,” said Josh Holmes, a Republican strategist and the architect of Senator Mitch McConnell’s re-election campaign in Kentucky last year. “And to the extent that there are mainstream candidates dragged into the musings of Trump on a day-to-day basis is really bad news for us.”
Since he entered the race in June with a declaration that Mexican immigrants were rapists and drug traffickers, Mr. Trump has given voice to conservative activists’ unease with America’s changing demography. But his attack last week on Jeb Bush for speaking Spanish on the campaign trail set off a new, more intense wave of anger from Republicans who say they believe that Mr. Trump’s widely covered provocations are becoming toxic for a party struggling to appeal to nonwhite voters.
“Knocking somebody because they have the skills to reach out to another community that has plenty of conservatives is political malpractice,” said Representative Tom Cole, Republican of Oklahoma. “If we’re going to be a majority party in the 21st century, we’re going to have to be a multiracial, multiethnic and inclusive party.”
Mr. Trump has become a deeply polarizing figure, polls show. While his standing among whites has inched up in recent months, he is highly unpopular among blacks and Hispanics. A recent ABC News/Washington Post poll shows that only 15 percent of African-Americans and 15 percent of Hispanics view him favorably, while more than 80 percent of each group views him unfavorably.
Yet as summer nears its end, Mr. Trump shows few signs of fading, leading to unease among Republican leaders, not because they believe the developer and reality TV star will become their nominee, but because of how he is shaping the campaign conversation.
While Mr. Trump was blunt in his attacks on immigrants, he has also begun to highlight issues involving African-Americans, the police and crime, using language that to some party officials evokes earlier appeals to white prejudice and anxiety. Mr. Trump and other prominent Republicans have also begun to directly criticize the Black Lives Matter movement, which seeks to call attention to mistreatment of African-Americans by police officers.
Amid an increase in murders in a number of cities and the high-profile killing of police officers, Mr. Trump has been infusing his speeches with calls for “law and order.” Echoing former President Richard M. Nixon, he has said that a “silent majority” will join him in taking back the country, and he has said he will rid heavily black Ferguson, Mo., Baltimore and Chicago of gangs and “tough dudes.”
“That’s not a dog whistle; that’s a dog siren,” Rick Wilson, a Florida-based Republican strategist, said of Mr. Trump’s references to cities, gangs and policing. “When he first started saying ‘silent majority,’ I didn’t think he understood the historical antecedents, but now I believe they very much do.”
At a speech in Nashville on Aug. 29, Mr. Trump played down concerns about police brutality, saying that “99.9 percent” of what the police do is good. He said the riots in Baltimore — which broke out after the funeral of Freddie Gray, an African-American who died of injuries suffered while in police custody — resulted from the police not being allowed to exert their authority.
“That first night in Baltimore, they allowed that city to be destroyed,” he said. “They set it back 35 years in one night because the police weren’t allowed to protect people. We need law and order!”
Mr. Trump’s remarks got prominent attention in the conservative news media, and two days later, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, responding to the killing of a sheriff’s deputy in Houston, said that “cops across this country are feeling the assault.” Mr. Cruz suggested that President Obama was in part to blame for the attacks on the police.
“They’re feeling the assault from the president, from the top on down as we see — whether it’s in Ferguson or Baltimore — the response of senior officials of the president, of the attorney general, is to vilify law enforcement,” Mr. Cruz told reporters in New Hampshire. He added, “I’m proud to stand with law enforcement.”
Then, two days after Mr. Cruz’s remarks, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin echoed that message in a column for a conservative website.
“Instead of hope and change, we’ve seen racial tensions worsen and a tendency to use law enforcement as a scapegoat,” Mr. Walker wrote. He also criticized Black Lives Matter, calling for a change in tone “from chants and rallies that fixate on racial division.”
It is not only presidential hopefuls who are seizing on the issue: Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina, who is seen as a Republican vice-presidential prospect, argued in a speech in Washington last week that police officers were now scared to do their jobs.
“Black lives do matter, and they have been disgracefully jeopardized by the movement that has laid waste to Ferguson and Baltimore,” Ms. Haley said.
Republicans watching the campaign unfold worry that Mr. Trump is largely shaping the party’s message, especially given the outsize media coverage he attracts.
After Mr. Trump declared his opposition to birthright citizenship, others in the field were asked their views, leading to a conversation about the term “anchor babies,” which Mr. Bush used to describe the children of parents who come to the United States to give birth to ensure their offspring have citizenship.
That the candidates are even discussing such issues as birthright citizenship or whether candidates should speak only English is striking, given that the Republican Party underwent a public soul-searching after the 2012 campaign and vowed to reach out to minorities.
“We can’t divide by race or ethnicity or gender,” Mr. Cole said.
Mr. Cole, a Native American, added: “It matters when you talk to people in their own language. I know what I would feel like if somebody said, ‘You shouldn’t speak Chickasaw.’ ”
Some Republican candidates, most notably Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, and Senator Marco Rubio, also of Florida, have begun to challenge Mr. Trump and his talk, after largely avoiding doing so in the first few months of the campaign.
And some Christian conservatives, whose congregations are increasingly filled with immigrants whose first language is not English, said Republicans needed to publicly denounce Mr. Trump’s tactics.
“This kind of politics of anger seems to be taking us back to some ugly moments in American history,” said Russell Moore, a senior official with the Southern Baptist Convention. “It’s a regrettable and dangerous ploy that I don’t think churchgoing evangelicals are going to fall for.”
“Even if one doesn’t have a sense of morality, one ought to have a sense of demography to know this is self-destructive,” he said.
Political parties are civic institutions. They are broad coalitions built for the purpose of creating a governing majority that can be used to win elections and pass agendas. This summer three American politicians have risen to the fore, and they all sit outside or at the margin of the party they are trying to lead.
Donald Trump didn’t even swear allegiance to his party’s eventual nominee until last week. He is a lone individual whose main cause and argument is Himself.
Ben Carson has no history in politics and a short history in the Republican Party. He is a politically unattached figure whose primary lifetime loyalty has been to the field of medicine.
Bernie Sanders is a socialist independent, who in the Senate caucuses with the Democrats.
And yet, these anti-party figures are surging in the party races for the presidential nominations.
This phenomenon is even more extreme in Britain. The British Labour Party suffered a crushing election defeat in May because people did not think its leader was strong enough, and because they thought its policy agenda was too far left.
And yet at the moment the favorite to become the next leader of the British Labour Party is Jeremy Corbyn. Mr. Corbyn has existed for decades on the leftward fringe of the Labour Party, tolerated as sort of a nice but dotty uncle.
He spent much of his career at the edge of the parliamentary party, writing columns for The Morning Star, a communist-founded newspaper. He’s a pacifist who called for British withdrawal from NATO. He’s spent his career consorting with the usual litany of anti-Western figures, including his friends in Hamas and Hezbollah. Until about three months ago he was considered the most outside of the outsiders — until a cult of personality developed around him, rocketing him to the top of the polls.
These four anti-party men have little experience in the profession of governing. They have no plausible path toward winning 50.1 percent of the vote in any national election. They have no prospect of forming a majority coalition that can enact their policies.
These sudden stars are not really about governing. They are tools for their supporters’ self-expression. They allow supporters to make a statement, demand respect or express anger or resentment. Sarah Palin was a pioneer in seeing politics not as a path to governance but as an expression of her followers’ id.
Why has this type risen so suddenly?
First, political parties, like institutions across society, are accorded less respect than in decades past. But we’re also seeing the political effects of a broader culture shift, the rise of what sociologists call expressive individualism.
There has always been a tension between self and society. Americans have always wanted to remain true to individual consciousness, but they also knew they were citizens, members of a joint national project, tied to one another by bonds as deep as the bonds of marriage and community.
As much as they might differ, there was some responsibility to maintain coalitions with people unlike themselves. That meant maintaining conversations and relationships, tolerating difference, living with dialectics and working with opposites. The Democratic Party was once an illogical coalition between Northeastern progressives and Southern evangelicals. The G.O.P. was an alliance between business and the farm belt.
But in the ethos of expressive individualism, individual authenticity is the supreme value. Compromise and coalition-building is regarded as a dirty and tainted activity. People congregate in segregated cultural and ideological bubbles and convince themselves that the purest example of their type could actually win.
The young British left forms a temporary cult of personality around Jeremy Corbyn. The alienated right forms serial cults around Glenn Beck, Herman Cain, Palin, Trump and Carson.
These cults never last because there is no institutional infrastructure. But along the way the civic institutions that actually could mobilize broad coalitions — the parties — get dismissed and gutted. Without these broad coalition parties, the country is ungovernable and cynicism ratchets up even further.
Maybe this is a summer squall and voters will get interested in the more traditional party candidates come autumn, the ones who can actually win majorities and govern. But institutional decay is real, and it’s what happens in a country in which people would rather live in solipsistic bubbles than build relationships across differences.
I wonder what would happen if a sensible Donald Trump appeared — a former cabinet secretary or somebody who could express the disgust for the political system many people feel, but who instead of adding to the cycle of cynicism, channeled it into citizenship, into the notion that we are still one people, compelled by love of country to live with one another, and charged with the responsibility to make the compromises, build the coalitions, practice messy politics and sustain the institutions that throughout history have made national greatness possible.
Donald J. Trump, who received draft deferments through much of the Vietnam War, told the author of a coming biography that he nevertheless “always felt that I was in the military” because of his education at a military-themed boarding school.
Mr. Trump said his experience at the New York Military Academy, an expensive prep school where his parents had sent him to correct poor behavior, gave him “more training militarily than a lot of the guys that go into the military.”
That claim may raise eyebrows given that Mr. Trump, now a Republican presidential candidate, never served in the military and mocked Senator John McCain of Arizona, a decorated naval aviator, for his captivity of several years during the Vietnam War.
“He’s not a war hero,” Mr. Trump said in July. “He’s a war hero because he was captured. I like people that weren’t captured.”
Mr. Trump described his education, business life, marriages and childhood in extensive interviews with Michael D’Antonio, a Pulitzer Prize-winning former reporter at Newsday. Mr. D’Antonio’s biography of Mr. Trump, “Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success,” will be published Sept. 22.
In the book, Mr. Trump emerges as a man largely unchanged from his childhood in the wealthy Queens neighborhood of Jamaica Estates, where an exacting father, Fred Trump, schooled him in self-promotion and encouraged a lifetime of fighting. The senior Mr. Trump, a major real estate developer, counseled his son to “be a killer” and told him, “You are a king.”
Mr. Trump memorably told Mr. D’Antonio that “when I look at myself in the first grade and I look at myself now, I’m basically the same.”
“The temperament is not that different,” he said.
Mr. Trump’s preoccupation with winning — at anything and everything, big or small — dominated his youth. His mentor at the New York Military Academy, Theodore Dobias, called Mr. Trump “a conniver, even then.”
When Mr. Trump’s high school classmates showed up for a Columbus Day parade in New York City, expecting to lead the procession, they were dismayed to find a group of Roman Catholic girls arranged ahead of them. Mr. Trump announced that he would take care of the problem. When he returned a few minutes later, having negotiated a Trump-like deal, the cadets were put at the front of the parade, Mr. Dobias said.
Mr. Trump, he said, “just wanted to be first, in everything, and he wanted people to know he was first.”
St. Martin’s Press provided an advance copy of the book to The New York Times, and Mr. D’Antonio provided excerpts from his interviews with Mr. Trump. (The author interviewed Mr. Trump for more than six hours. The sessions abruptly ended, he wrote, after Mr. Trump learned that Mr. D’Antonio had spoken with a longtime Trump enemy.)
The biography offers candid and sometimes unflattering assessments of Mr. Trump by co-workers, friends, enemies and, most entertainingly, his former wives. “The little boy that still wants attention,” said Marla Maples, his second wife.
“He wants to be noticed,” said Ivana Trump, wife No. 1, who recalled sending him into a fit of rage by skiing past him on a hill in Aspen, Colo. Mr. Trump stopped, took off his skis and walked off the trail. “He could not take it, that I could do something better than he did,” she said.
Asked if she had ever figured out her ex-husband, Ivana Trump said, “Yeah, I figured it out.” But then she added, “Well, I really don’t know.”
But as Mr. Trump seeks to become commander in chief, with a slogan promising to “Make America Great Again,” his statements about the military are likely to draw the most attention.
According to the book, Mr. Trump attended the New York Military Academy after years of rowdy and rebellious behavior at Kew-Forest, a more traditional prep school in Queens. Mr. Trump once recalled giving a teacher at Kew-Forest a black eye “because I didn’t think he knew anything about music.”
He arrived at the military academy — where tuition now reaches $31,000 a year — for eighth grade in 1959 and remained for high school. Like all students at the campus in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y., he wore a uniform, participated in marching drills and was expected to conform to a hierarchy imposed by instructors. Despite sitting out the Vietnam War because of deferments followed by a high draft lottery number of 356 out of 366, Mr. Trump said he endured the rigors of military life.
“My number was so incredible, and it was a very high draft number. Anyway, so I never had to do that, but I felt that I was in the military in the true sense because I dealt with those people,” he told Mr. D’Antonio.
The author seemed taken aback by this. Not many of the academy’s alumni “would compare military school with actual military service,” he wrote. “But the assertion was consistent with the self-image Trump often expressed.”
During an interview for the book, Mr. Trump removed a shoe to show the author the cause of his medical deferment. “Heel spurs,” he said. “On both feet.”
As for the Vietnam conflict, he called the war “a mistake.”
Mr. Trump relished his five years at the military academy and bemoaned the dwindling enrollment at such schools.
“After the Vietnam War, all those military academies lost ground because people really disrespected the military,” Mr. Trump said. “They weren’t sending their kids to military school. It was a whole different thing, but in those days — 1964 I graduated — that was a very good thing or tough thing, and it was a real way of life at military academy.”
Mr. Trump’s reputation for self-indulgence is well known (the helicopters, the planes, the penthouses). But at times, his biographer found, he has displayed unexpected generosity.
When the wife of his chauffeur had a baby, Mr. Trump surprised them with a car seat delivered to the hospital. When a 10-year-old fan of “The Apprentice” asked the developer to utter the catchphrase “you’re fired” to him on the set of the show, Mr. Trump gave the boy a check for several thousand dollars and said, “Go have the time of your life.”
Mr. Trump is a veritable factory of boorish put-downs, laugh-out-loud exaggerations and self-aggrandizing declarations. But “Never Enough” unearths decades-old gems that might otherwise be lost to history.
On his publicity seeking: “The show is ‘Trump,’ and it is sold-out performances everywhere,” he told Playboy.
On his feelings of superiority: “For the most part, you can’t respect people because most people aren’t worthy of respect,” he told Mr. D’Antonio.
Perhaps his most revealing statement applies to the time-honored virtue of self-reflection. Mr. Trump is not in favor of it.
“When you start studying yourself too deeply, you start seeing things that maybe you don’t want to see,” Mr. Trump once told Time. “And if there’s a rhyme and reason,” he continued, “people can figure you out, and once they can figure you out, you’re in big trouble.”
When Donald Trump reached the top of the polls in July, his candidacy seemed very familiar, at least to me.
His coalition was ideologically incoherent, and he had no support from party elites. His surge looked like a media-driven phenomenon with no foundation — exactly the sort of candidacy prone to collapse once coverage turned negative. It was a story that played out over and over again in the 2012 campaign.
Two months later, Mr. Trump has not gone bust, as I thought he would. He has demonstrated that he can drive the media as much as the media is driving his support. And his coalition is united as much by affection for his demeanor as his policies — insulating him from fallout over inflammatory remarks that would doom other candidates.
Suddenly, the question isn’t whether Mr. Trump is different from someone like Herman Cain in 2012, but how different? Is he so different that he could survive not just for a month or two, but all the way to Iowa and New Hampshire? Is he so different that he could even win?
Mr. Trump may be very different from past candidates, but his story could easily end the way theirs did. He remains an extreme long shot, for the same reasons that no candidate remotely like him has ever come close to winning a presidential nomination.
His chances will depend on the extent that his celebrity, media prowess and self-funding can defy the party elites who traditionally decide nomination contests. Those assets may be enough for him to brush aside the attacks that have quickly caused other campaigns to implode in the past. But amassing the delegates and voters to win the nomination is a lot harder than withstanding attacks on controversial comments five or six months before an election.
Grass-roots conservatives and liberals may resent it, but many analysts — including me — argue that the outcome of presidential nominations is shaped or even decided by party elites. That’s a broadly defined category of nearly anyone who has the power to sway public opinion with money, skills or media reach. It includes party officials, politicians, political operatives, donors, activists, television pundits and radio hosts.
Many candidates — “factional” candidates, as I described them in a taxonomy of primary candidates in April — can become the favorite of a major group of voters, lead the national polls for a time and even win states without broad support from party elites. But no candidate has won the nomination without the support of those elites.
From this perspective, Mr. Trump, an outsider candidate with little support from the party establishment, has just about no chance of winning the nomination, no matter how well he is doing in the early polls.
“Trump is the perfect test case,” said Marty Cohen, an author of “The Party Decides,” the well-regarded academic book that made the case for an elite-driven nomination process. Mr. Cohen and his three co-authors, all four political scientists, found that money, media attention and poll numbers (three categories in which Mr. Trump is at least competitive) were not nearly as predictive as endorsements, a category Mr. Trump seems sure to lose.
For past candidates, elite support has been necessary, and unified party opposition has been fatal. Without elite support, an ordinary candidate can’t build a top campaign or raise big money or draw major attention from traditional media.
Party opposition is even worse. It ensures a chorus of influential critics in the media and a well-funded opponent with endless resources for advertisements to echo the attacks. Grass-roots support and super PACs can help compensate for a lack of broad support, but they probably can’t overcome broad opposition. The voice of the elites is too strong and influential.
But Mr. Trump is not an ordinary candidate. “We’ve seen populist insurgents, businessmen who can self-finance and celebrities who captivate the media,” said David Karol, a co-author of “The Party Decides.” “But there has been no one who has all of these characteristics. He poses a challenge to traditional party elites of a sort we haven’t seen at the national level in modern times. He cannot be sidelined easily.”
You didn’t read things like this from political scientists or data journalists two months ago, but Mr. Trump has since shown himself to be a different kind of challenger than ones from the recent past. His comments about Senator John McCain’s status as a war hero prompted unified outrage across the party, but did little if any damage. Neither did his disparagement  of Megyn Kelly of Fox News, or countless disputes with rival candidates.
Many of his supporters say they admire his bold personality and his willingness to say what he thinks. A Google Consumer Survey sponsored by Echelon Insights gave voters the opportunity to describe why they supported Mr. Trump, and over all, half of his supporters said they liked him because of his authenticity, compared with 14 percent who mentioned a policy.
There is no guarantee, of course, that Mr. Trump can pull this off indefinitely. The wrong remark or a bad debate performance could start to damage him at any point. Another candidate could surge in the polls and steal the limelight. But there isn’t a guarantee that he implodes before Iowa or New Hampshire either.
Could Mr. Trump really then go on to win the nomination? “Party insiders can contain weak forces, but not very strong ones, because if a majority of voters really wants something, the nomination system is too democratic to deny it to them,” argued John Zaller, another author of “The Party Decides.”
But is Mr. Trump such a strong candidate? He remains a candidate with many flaws. He has staked out policy positions on taxes and health care that put him out of step with many Republican voters and nearly all Republican elites.
“The reason I think he cannot get the nomination,” Mr. Zaller said, “is not that insiders have some magical ability to stop someone who runs strongly in the primaries and caucuses. It is because I don’t think Trump can run that strongly, especially now that he is talking about tax increases.”
It is tempting to look at Mr. Trump’s resilience thus far and conclude that he can defy any effort to bring him down. But the party has not yet played its full hand, or anything like it. So far, Mr. Trump has fended off a few attacks from a disorganized party at a time when voters are paying relatively little attention. That will change.
My colleague Nick Confessore reported that Republican groups are mulling waging a large campaign against Mr. Trump. But that effort has struggled, in part because attacking him brings risks, and every group argues that someone else ought to do the work of taking him down. It’s a textbook collective action problem.
It would be easier if the party had already coalesced around a single candidate. “I think 2016 was already particularly challenging without Trump,” said Hans Noel, another of the book’s authors. The G.O.P. has struggled to coalesce behind anything like a consensus candidate because the party is so fractured and the field is so big.
The party has huge incentives to unify against Trump. He is unacceptable to nearly every Republican wing. A unified party could spend millions — even hundreds of millions — attacking Mr. Trump, criticizing him in the media and fueling his eventual opponent.
“There have been efforts like it in the past, like Buchanan in 1996, who the party really went after and solidified behind Dole,” said Mr. Cohen. Pat Buchanan, then best known as a political pundit, defeated Bob Dole in the New Hampshire primary — and didn’t win a primary again.
Mr. Trump, without party support, could lack the experienced staff to run a strong ground operation, turn out irregular voters and get on the ballot across the country (Rick Santorum and some other G.O.P. candidates failed to get on all the ballots in 2012). It remains to be seen how much of his own money Mr. Trump is willing to spend on the campaign.
Some analysts, like Norman Ornstein, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, question whether the establishment can exert enough influence over an electorate that seems to despise it. But the party has succeeded in swaying voters even if conservatives have big reservations, as was the case with Mr. McCain in 2008 and Mitt Romney in 2012. It might be harder for the party to reach that point this year, with such a large field, but the field will eventually narrow.
In both those elections, the establishment prevailed by swaying voters in blue and purple states. The 2008 contest was decided on Super Tuesday with big victories by Mr. McCain in California, New York, New Jersey and Illinois. The 2012 contest took longer to decide, in part because those states were pushed back in the calendar and didn’t vote while the race was competitive, but Mr. Romney fought his way to the nomination with wins in Ohio, Michigan, New Hampshire and Florida.
The blue-state Republicans are often forgotten because the Republicans who control the House and Senate tend to hail from the red states and districts where the G.O.P. wins elections. But the Obama-voting states still possess the delegates necessary to decide the G.O.P. nomination; Republicans in those states are generally more moderate, less religious and better educated than the red-state Republicans. If it came down to it, G.O.P. campaigns and aligned super PACs could easily spend more than $100 million in California, New York, New Jersey and other big, blue and often winner-take-all states in April, May and June of 2016 to knock Mr. Trump out.
Would that be the party deciding, or the voters?

Seeking to promote its broadcast of an important soccer match between the United States and Mexico next month, a Mexican television network has remixed Donald J. Trump’s comments about the death of the American dream into a commercial mocking the chances of the United States team.
The ad, produced by TV Azteca ahead of a one-game playoff between the two nations on Oct. 10 for a place in the next Confederations Cup, uses excerpts from Mr. Trump’s remarks when he announced his candidacy for president in June. “Sadly, the American dream is dead,” he said that day, when he also suggested that many Mexican migrants to the United States were drug users and rapists.
Those comments earned Mr. Trump infamy across Mexico, and the new ad seeks to channel that distaste for the man seen as the quintessential ugly American as a way to stir nationalist passions ahead of the game.
It could be the three marriages, but especially the one that ended after he was said to have started romancing his soon-to-be second wife during church.
Or the time he held a news conference to declare that he had personally inspected topless photographs of a Miss Universe contestant and found nothing distasteful or disqualifying about them. “In many cases, they were actually lovely pictures,” he said.
Then there were his irreverent remarks on how Holy Communion was his way of asking God to forgive him — not that he had anything to be sorry for. 
“When I drink my little wine,” he said recently to an audience of somewhat baffled evangelical Christians in Iowa, “and have my little cracker, I guess that is a form of asking for forgiveness.”
There are many ways that Donald J. Trump is an improbable fit as the Republican standard-bearer: his past support for abortion rights, his previous advocacy for a single-payer health care plan, his changing positions and general disregard for party orthodoxy.
But Mr. Trump also faces a different and, in some ways, deeper divide with the social and religious conservatives so essential to the party he seeks to lead. For some of them, Mr. Trump’s Manhattan lifestyle, his celebration of decadence, and his lack of humility and religiosity make him seem alien to their lives and their values.
“There’s a conflict of worldviews, and it’s really serious,” said Penny Young Nance, the president of Concerned Women for America, a group of culturally and socially conservative women.
When the next president is faced with a life-or-death decision, she added, it is important to know that he or she will “get down on their knees and seek God’s direction.”
That is not something she said she can imagine Mr. Trump doing. “It’s important to us that where you’re drawing your worldview, your compass, it’s not just based on your gut,” Ms. Nance said. “We don’t think anyone is that blessed or thoughtful or smart. We think you need God.”
That dissonance is something that Mr. Trump’s rivals are trying to bring to the attention of religious voters. Last week, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida released a video that highlighted Mr. Trump’s previous liberal ideas and New York sensibility.
“I lived in New York City and Manhattan all my life, O.K., so my views are a little bit different than if I lived in Iowa,” Mr. Trump is shown saying in an old television interview, explaining why his views were different from those of many Republicans.
And Ben Carson, the retired pediatric neurosurgeon who is running second to Mr. Trump in some recent polls, said Wednesday that while his faith is “a very big part of who I am,” he doubts that is true for Mr. Trump. “I don’t get that impression with him,” he said.
Few recent episodes have illustrated how differently Mr. Trump sees the world than his comments on Planned Parenthood, some social conservative leaders complain. On the question of whether to strip the organization of its $500 million in federal funding, he has said that he would but that he also believes it should be evaluated as more than just an abortion provider. The issue will be debated in Congress in the coming weeks.
“I would look at the good aspects of it,” he told CNN. “And I would also look because I’m sure they do some things properly and good, good for women, and I would look at that.”
Few Republicans today would dare utter anything complimentary about Planned Parenthood, which is such a contentious subject that several candidates for president have said they would like to see the effort within Congress to eliminate the organization’s funding escalate into a government shutdown if necessary.
Making matters worse, when NBC News asked Mr. Trump whether he had ever donated money to the group, he said he could not recall because he had given hundreds of millions of dollars to various charities over his lifetime. (His campaign later clarified that he had not given to Planned Parenthood.)
Anti-abortion groups have denounced him, saying he appeared to be hedging in a way that seems antithetical to the Trump straight talk his supporters admire.
“He’s the last person to want to please everyone all the time, and he shouldn’t be trying to please everyone on this,” said Marjorie Dannenfelser, the president of the Susan B. Anthony List, an anti-abortion group. “When somebody seems like they’re trying to have it both ways, they often are.”
Religion and spirituality do play a role in his life, Mr. Trump insists, even if he does not wear his church affiliation (Presbyterian) on his sleeve.
Mr. Trump says he attends church regularly, unlike the television personality he styles himself on who also had a pompadour and political views that evolved to become more conservative: Ronald Reagan. 
Mr. Trump was said to have rendezvoused with Marla Maples, who would become his second wife, during Sunday services at the Marble Collegiate Church on West 29th Street in Manhattan. (Reagan also divorced and remarried.) 
Mr. Trump professes a love for the Bible. “Nothing beats the Bible,” he said recently at a rally in Michigan. “Not even ‘The Art of the Deal.’ Not even close.” (“The Art of the Deal“ is one of his books.)
He also barely touches alcohol. And he has been active in philanthropy since his early days as a New York developer. He was known to occasionally send money to down-on-their-luck people he had read about in the newspaper.
Still, among conservatives, Mr. Trump has his defenders, which is sometimes puzzling to those on the right who try to call him out.
“I, for the life of me, can’t figure it out,” said Josh Kimbrell, host of a conservative, Christian-oriented radio program broadcast from Greenville, S.C.
Mr. Kimbrell said that whenever he is hard on Mr. Trump on the air, he gets pushback from some of his listeners almost immediately. 
“It’s almost like willful disbelief that the guy is a conservative,” he said.
Most visibly, Mr. Trump has tangled with another conservative radio host, Erick Erickson, who has a national evangelical Christian following, after his invitation to a candidates’ forum was revoked last month. 
Mr. Erickson said that Mr. Trump’s comments about Megyn Kelly, the Fox News anchor who grilled him during the Republican presidential debate, were “a bridge too far” because they implied that she was hormonal and agitated.
“There are just real lines of decency a person running for president should not cross,” Mr. Erickson said at the time. Mr. Trump said he was misunderstood.
Still, Frank Luntz, the Republican consultant who was interviewing Mr. Trump in front of the evangelical audience in Iowa when he made the “cracker” comments about communion, said that he believed Mr. Trump’s reputation as a ruthless fighter was something that was appealing to Christian conservatives who believed their way of life was under assault.
Even after the “cracker” quip — “You could hear, audibly, shock in the room,” Mr. Luntz said — many people did not seem terribly bothered. “This is the Paul Simon principle of politics: A man hears what he wants to hear and disregards the rest,” Mr. Luntz said, summing up Mr. Trump’s enduring and paradoxical popularity with many Christian voters.
As pure entertainment, the race for the Republican presidential nomination has been a resounding success. Donald Trump, the star, has been by turns witty, provocative, outrageous — and always telegenic. He helped draw an estimated 24 million viewers to the first televised Republican debate, a record, and a ratings bonanza for Fox News, with which he nonetheless publicly feuded. Blithely flouting all conventions of presidential debate and decorum, Trump indulged in the name­-calling, personal attacks and one-liners that have vaulted him to the top of the polls.
Much of the media is treating the contest as just another reality show, in which any day we’re going to tune in to watch Trump get voted off. But in the aptly titled and perfectly timed “Never Enough: Donald Trump and the Pursuit of Success,” Michael D’Antonio, a former Newsday reporter and author of over a dozen books, places Trump’s life and career in a context that helps explain why his emergence at the top of Republican presidential polls was not only plausible but inevitable. In the self-absorption and self-promotion he has practiced all his life, “Donald Trump is not a man apart,” D’Antonio contends. “He is, instead, merely one of us writ large.”
“Never Enough” is an admirably straight­forward, evenhanded but nonetheless damning account of Trump’s life, including his failed marriages and businesses and his emergence as a reality television star and presidential ­contender. Trump provided some access before cutting off D’Antonio and his research assistant after they dared to interview someone on his long list of enemies.
This access nonetheless enables D’Antonio to showcase Trump’s tendency to turn any question into a discussion of himself. Asked to name a book that influenced him, he replies: “I would love to read. I’ve had many best sellers, as you know, and ‘The Art of the Deal’ was one of the ­biggest-selling books of all time — that’s really what started this whole thing.” Soon he’s on to “The Apprentice” — “the No. 1 show on television” — but not a book at all.
Out of necessity, D’Antonio relies heavily on published sources, which are voluminous, considering that Trump’s every move has been chronicled by the media and that he’s already the subject of a substantial bibliography, not to mention his 10 autobiographical and self-help books, from 1987’s “The Art of the Deal” to this year’s e-book “Trump for President: Why We Need a Leader, Not a Politician.” As D’Antonio notes, Trump “has been a topic of conversation in America for almost 40 years. No one in the world of business — not Bill Gates, Steve Jobs or Warren Buffett — has been as famous as Trump for as long.”
I didn’t find any major revelations in “Never Enough,” but D’Antonio’s book usefully plants Trump’s rise, fall and comeback in the context of broader social, psychological and technological trends — the rise of the Me Generation, the “culture of narcissism” described by Christopher Lasch, the Internet and social media — and brings the story forward to Trump’s announcement this year that he would seek the Republican nomination.
D’Antonio points out the obvious, which is that much of what Trump says can euphemistically be called exaggeration, but he sheds little light on the source and scope of Trump’s fortune, which is his primary qualification for the ­presidency. Most of Trump’s claims — to being a great deal-maker, a great athlete, a great businessman — are hard to verify, though there seems little more than a kernel of truth to at least some of them.
This year Forbes pegs Trump’s wealth at $4.1 billion, which, while less than half the $9 billion Trump claims, indeed makes him rich. Much of that wealth comes from the Trump brand rather than deal-making per se. His star turn on NBC’s “The Celebrity Apprentice,” his licensing fees, his books, his speaking engagements, even his men’s wear line, have brought in millions. He’s had good divorce lawyers.
But he’s hardly another Henry R. Kravis or Carl C. Icahn. Four of his heavily indebted casino companies filed for bankruptcy, stiffing his creditors. Citibank took possession of the ill-fated Trump Shuttle airline. Trump himself narrowly escaped personal bankruptcy. As David Segal wrote in The Washington Post: “The people who know the least about business admire him the most, and those who know the most about business admire him the least.”
One thing, however, is undeniable: Trump is a master of self-promotion, unrivaled even by the likes of the Kardashians. Whatever the outcome of the current presidential campaign, it has made him as famous, as instantly recognizable and as talked about as anyone in America. Trump figured out early on that fortune follows fame, which is all but indistinguishable from notoriety. Whether or not Trump ends up in the White House, his golden years surely lie ahead of him. His agents must be salivating at the prospect of his next Hollywood contract.
Trump first appeared on the front page of The New York Times in 1973, with the headline “Major Landlord Accused of ­Anti-Black Bias in City,” hardly an auspicious beginning, after the Justice Department charged the Trump Management Corporation with violating the Fair Housing Act. (Trump hired Roy Cohn, himself a master of press coverage who became a close friend and mentor to Trump, to launch a counter­attack.) The case was eventually settled, with a consent decree but without Trump or anyone having to admit guilt.
Three years later that was a distant memory when he was profiled by a Times reporter, Judy Klemesrud (“tall, lean and blond,” she wrote), riding around in a chauffeured Cadillac limousine with “DJT” vanity plates and offering the dubious claims that he was worth “more than $200 million,” graduated first in his class at Wharton and was publicity-shy.
Trump has never since been out of the media spotlight. Publicity came “naturally” to him, D’Antonio suggests, which doesn’t give Trump enough credit. As Trump told Timothy O’Brien, author of the 2005 book “Trump Nation,” he had “devoted countless hours to keeping his name in the press. Having supplied many journalists with juicy stories, even some that reflected poorly on him, Trump had banked favors that he could redeem.”
Trump also seems to have an uncanny sense of the elements of a good story — conflict, money and sex — especially when he’s the subject. Even though he made some halfhearted protests (further prolonging public attention), he surely basked in the comment of his second wife, Marla Maples, that sex with him was the best she’d ever had.
“I have always gotten much more publicity than anyone else,” Trump boasts, which, as his exaggerations go, is probably one of the more accurate. This ability seems rooted in a seemingly inexhaustible need for attention. D’Antonio reports that “Trump begins each day with a sheaf of papers detailing where and how often his name has been mentioned in the global press. . . . This need to be noticed, and his drive to satisfy it, has made him a singular figure worthy of close inspection.”
It also makes him pretty much a classic case of narcissism, and D’Antonio cites several textbooks in which Trump serves as an example, including “Abnormal Behavior in the 21st Century” and “Personality Disorder and Older Adults.”
Narcissists typically enjoy conflict and will readily lie or exaggerate to gain the upper hand. Trump’s life can pretty much be summed up as an unending stream of conflicts, some real, many manufactured, all good copy. Trump tells D’Antonio: “I always loved to fight, all types of fights, including physical.” His crude attack on Megyn Kelly, the Fox News anchor and debate moderator, is just the latest of countless examples.
No amount of armchair psychoanalysis can fully explain Trump’s outsize personality, but D’Antonio’s account of his formative years suggests the source of at least some of these traits. His father, Fred, was demanding, withholding and a workaholic. “The father was really tough on the kid,” according to Theodore Dobias, a coach and something of a father figure to Trump. “He was very German.”
Trump was a rebellious 13-year-old when his parents sent him to the New York Military Academy in 1959. “Trump was always proud of himself,” Dobias recalls. “He believed he was the best.” He added that Trump “was a conniver even then. A real pain in the ass. He would do anything to win.”
No one should be surprised that this ambition has propelled Trump into the ultimate contest, which is the race for the White House, or that he’s in it to win. He has tapped into an angry segment of the population that admires the Trump brand, which stands for success, a willingness to fight and a contempt for elites in the media and the political establishment. As D’Antonio puts it, “Obscured by hype, the facts of his life didn’t matter as much as the idea of him.”
In the age of social media, where everyone is the star of his own Facebook page, “we no longer agree that intense self-­regard is a sign that something is wrong,” D’Antonio concludes. On the contrary, it’s a virtue.
Whether that holds true for a majority, or even a significant minority, of the electorate remains to be seen. Based on “Never Enough,” it’s hard to imagine anyone who has less in common with George Washington, Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt, considered by many scholars our three greatest presidents, than Donald Trump. Among their other virtues, they are revered for their honesty (Washington), modesty (Lincoln) and compassion for the poor (Roosevelt).
The Republican presidential candidates, increasingly certain that their televised debates can have make-or-break consequences for their campaigns, are preparing aggressive new tactics for their next face-off on Wednesday, hoping to draw voters away from the surprisingly durable Donald J. Trump as the 2016 race enters a more combative phase.
With the onetime front-runners Jeb Bush and Scott Walker sagging in the polls after middling performances in the last debate, on Aug. 6 — and with Mr. Trump rising despite divisive comments — many of the candidates are convinced that they are better off using the debates to make forceful and targeted appeals to viewers, rather than trying to knock out Mr. Trump, advisers to several campaigns said.
They point to the improved political fortunes of Carly Fiorina and John Kasich after they gave crisp and confident answers in August, and of Ben Carson, whose appeal among social conservatives has intensified since he discussed God, freedom and his experiences as a surgeon at the end of the last debate.
“There’s no panic here; it’s not like we have to swing for the fences, but rather, the goal is to hit some real singles in Wednesday’s debate,” said Ed Goeas, a senior adviser to Mr. Walker, the Wisconsin governor. “Now that we’re heading into the fall political season, it’s a natural time to take the campaign to the next level.”
For Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, and Mrs. Fiorina, the mission is clear, if not simple: Shame the seemingly shameless Mr. Trump.
Both are expected to take on Mr. Trump most aggressively — Mr. Bush, after being mercilessly derided for his leadership ability and energy level; Mrs. Fiorina, in response to attacks by Mr. Trump on her business record and even her looks.
Mr. Bush’s advisers say he will confront Mr. Trump for not “sharing the values” of conservatives, as one put it. Mrs. Fiorina, Republicans close to her say, has a more delicate balance to strike as she tries to rise above any attacks from Mr. Trump while making him look small if he unloads them.
Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, frustrated that the last debate did not give him many chances to talk about foreign policy, his perceived strength, will look for openings to win over Republicans who are most concerned about the nation’s security, his allies say.
And Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, who gained little from tangling with Mr. Trump and Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey in the August debate, hopes to shore up his Tea Party support by talking about his plans to restrain the power of the federal government.
Mindful that 24 million people watched the August debate on Fox, the Republicans have come to see these monthly encounters as their greatest opportunity to try to break out from the 17-candidate field.
And Mr. Trump’s singular talent for showmanship and his standing atop the polls have created urgency among rivals looking to tap into the disenchantment he is channeling.
Mr. Trump said in an interview on Thursday that he was delighted with his star turn at the August debate and did not see much room for improvement. He did say he was preparing for more foreign policy questions, mostly by meeting with national security experts, but denied he was doing so because he stumbled over questions about foreign leaders during a recent radio interview with Hugh Hewitt, who will be one of the moderators of Wednesday’s debate on CNN.
“I don’t like to second-guess my performances,” Mr. Trump said. “Debating isn’t much different than all the press conferences I do, though debate moderators do try to get you with the gotcha questions — ‘Name the third-string general of a certain army that is based in an area that used to be such-and-such country.’ Voters see through the whole gotcha thing, though, so I’m not worried. And if you look at the polls, a lot of people like the way I talk.”
Several other candidates, after reviewing their own performances in August, are looking to sharpen their delivery. Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon, and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas want to interject more aggressively, their advisers said, after enduring long stretches without speaking in the first debate.
And while Mr. Carson recovered at the end of that Cleveland debate, he initially struggled with a bout of stage fright under the bright lights in the cavernous hall, advisers said.
“The first debate was a way to shake out the butterflies for him and a lot of candidates,” said Doug Watts, a Carson spokesman. “He won’t let another 43 minutes go by without getting a word in.”
Mr. Walker has also been honing his speaking style. His advisers said he ranked third in the number of words uttered at the August debate, but spoke for relatively little time because he was rushing. He plans to address that, and to “punch” his words more, they said.
This, while also hoping that his allergies do not act up and make him sound overly nasal on television, which some Republicans have noticed.
“You’ll see a more aggressive Walker — passionate, determined, but speaking at an even pace, slowing down and emphasizing points correctly,” Mr. Goeas said.
For Mr. Bush, declining poll numbers and a summer’s worth of taunts from Mr. Trump about being “low energy” mean he must deliver a far more forceful performance this time.
Even some of Mr. Bush’s most ardent advocates concede he was uneven and somewhat nervous in the first debate.
Aides are urging Mr. Bush to project strength and seize opportunities to target Mr. Trump, especially if the CNN moderators set up confrontations between them on policy grounds.
“The beauty of it for us is that we can talk about our reform message and Washington being broken while comparing ourselves to somebody like Mr. Trump, who can in no credible way argue that he can do anything to take on D.C. besides offering a few good one-liners,” said Danny Diaz, Mr. Bush’s campaign manager, recounting Mr. Bush’s battles with trial lawyers, teachers and public employees.
Mr. Trump laughed at the notion that Mr. Bush might suddenly manifest moxie at the next debate. “Once you start changing your personality to try to come across differently, it doesn’t come out right or naturally — people see the phoniness,” Mr. Trump said.
Advisers to candidates who have avoided Mr. Trump’s ire say they will look for their own targets.
Mr. Cruz’s strategists say he hopes to capitalize on issues like the Iran nuclear accord and the Kentucky county clerk who was jailed for refusing to issue same-sex marriage licenses.
Advisers to Mr. Christie say he will be more pointed on topics like crime and sanctuary cities.
As for Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich, the Ohio governor, who both drew high marks last month, their Republican allies expect more of the same.
“We’ll stick with what’s working, but be prepared to observe or avoid the chaos on the stage,” said John Weaver, an adviser to Mr. Kasich, who has gained in the polls in New Hampshire as Mr. Bush has fallen.
“The better you do, the more you become a target, and we’re prepared if the Bush campaign decides to go on the attack.”
Donald J. Trump said on Friday that he had bought  NBC’s stake in the Miss Universe Organization, the group that produces the beauty pageant, which the network refused to broadcast this summer.
NBC backed out of broadcasting the Miss USA contest in July after comments by Mr. Trump, an owner of the organization, about immigrants stoked widespread outrage. Univision likewise backed out of its broadcast, which prompted Mr. Trump to sue the Spanish-language cable channel for $500 million.
Mr. Trump also said on Twitter that he had “settled all lawsuits against them,” referring to NBC, but it was not immediately clear if he had actually ever sued NBC. He had said that he intended to. NBC confirmed that Mr. Trump had bought the network’s stake in the pageant but declined to comment on whether it had been involved in a lawsuit with him.
Previously, Mr. Trump owned 49 percent of the Miss Universe Organization, according to Mr. Trump’s lawsuit against Univision. Now, according to his statement on Twitter, Mr. Trump owns it entirely.
After NBC and Univision abandoned the broadcast, Miss USA was thrown into a sort of limbo. It was without a major TV provider, and a number of co-hosts, judges and performers, including Thomas Roberts of MSNBC, the singer Flo Rida and the football star Emmitt Smith, all dropped out of the pageant during the furor. The Miss USA contest was eventually broadcast on the cable channel Reelz, which is available in about 60 percent of the country, and the pageant’s viewership was greatly diminished as a result.
NBC also announced this summer that Mr. Trump would not be welcomed back as the host of the show “The Celebrity Apprentice.” The network is looking for a new host, and the show is expected to return to the network next year.
Still, not all has been bad between NBC and Mr. Trump. At a news media event last month, the chairman of NBC Entertainment, Robert Greenblatt, said that Mr. Trump was a “lovely guy” and that the network’s relationship was “really great.”
“The world likes a star, and he’s a star,” he said.
Mr. Trump returned the favor later that day, posting on Twitter, “Bob Greenblatt & folks @NBC were GREAT!”
Scott Freier is not on the New Jersey Jackals roster, but he does play for the team.
In fact, Mr. Freier, 46, an insurance adjuster from Bloomfield, N.J., may be the best-known person at the minor league team’s games, if only by his nickname: the Trumpet Guy.
Mr. Freier and his horn have been fixtures at Jackals games since opening day of the team’s first season in 1998, at Yogi Berra Stadium in Little Falls, N.J.
He is an avid fan who knows many of the players — two are currently staying in a condominium he owns — and attends well over 50 Jackals games a season, including many road games, from Kansas to Canada.
Throughout the games, Mr. Freier trumpets a wide array of ditties to punctuate play on the field. If a Jackals player steals a base, he may be heralded with an excerpt from Rossini’s “William Tell Overture.” After being cheered on with a “Charge” flourish, a Jackals batter may have his base hit rewarded with the rousing opening bars from the old television series “F Troop,” as on Wednesday night when the team faced the Quebec Capitales in a playoff game.
For the Capitales, Mr. Freier offered snide snippets to razz them after putouts or errors. When Quebec’s leadoff hitter grounded out, Mr. Freier mocked him with the mourning strains of Chopin’s “Funeral March.” When a Quebec player struck out, the Trumpet Guy jeered him with a goofy melody extended until the frustrated batter finally took his seat back in the dugout. 
“People have asked me, ‘Do you get paid for this?’ ” Mr. Freier said. “No, but I get something out of it. I’m trying to give my team a bit of a home-field advantage.”
Mr. Freier said he grew up in Montclair playing in school ensembles. His knack for quickly learning melodies by ear served him well while in college when he began bringing his trumpet to games for kicks. In the early 1990s, he was a fan of a defunct minor league team that played in Sussex County and of the Newark Bears. But he has been a devoted Jackals fan since the team formed in 1998.
Several years ago, Mr. Freier met another die-hard Jackals fan, Frances Duffy, at the ballpark through a team employee. Ms. Duffy, a professional harpist and trombonist, bonded with Mr. Freier over music and the Jackals, and she began accompanying him to most games, sitting in Section FF, along the third base line, where Mr. Freier has long held season tickets.
They were married last month at the Yogi Berra Museum, next to the field. The team’s mascot, Jack the Jackal, stood by in a tuxedo jacket, and the team’s official photographer was hired for the occasion.
On Wednesday night, the couple arrived at the section and greeted the cohort of a dozen faithful fans who provide a chorus backing Mr. Freier’s blasts. Mr. Freier wore a Jackals cap and jersey with a musical eighth-note on the back instead of a number.
“He’s hard-core,” said Don Girone, 59, an accountant from Jersey City who sits behind Mr. Freier. Gregory L. Lockard, the Jackals’ president, called Mr. Freier “part of the fabric of our team.” 
But the Trumpet Guy is not universally loved by other teams. A manager once protested a game because Mr. Freier trumpeted while a player took his position in the batter’s box. And umpires have complained to team officials when Mr. Freier played “Three Blind Mice” after contested calls. 
At the game on Wednesday, Mr. Freier pulled out his Bundy student trumpet, painted Jackals red and black, from a case adorned with team and league patches. He taped a song list to the railing and placed his horn and his beer near the plaque the Jackals installed for him three years back: “1,000 games as Trumpet Guy, July 13, 2012.”
Throughout the game, any play by either team that went the Jackals’ way seemed to merit a melodic reaction from Mr. Freier.
When a Jackals batter singled in a run, Mr. Freier yelled and grabbed his horn and played “Anchors Aweigh” loud enough to echo through the stadium. Another Jackals hit in the bottom of the third brought “The Battle Hymn of the Republic.”
After a Jackals infielder made an impressive catch and threw a batter out at first base, Mr. Freier quoted part of the theme from the 1978 film “Superman.”
When a Quebec player was hit by a pitch and was inspected by a team trainer, Mr. Freier played the theme from “M*A*S*H.”
Finally, after a Quebec batter struck out to end the game, leaving the Jackals with a 4-3 victory, Mr. Freier walked Quebec off the field with a version of “Taps” as his chorus in Section FF and beyond cheered in accompaniment.
An old-school, wide-brimmed rope hat — some in white and navy, others in red and white — has seemingly become the ironic must-have fashion accessory of the summer.
It is the “Make America Great Again” campaign hat first worn in July by Donald J. Trump in Laredo, Tex., and since spotted on hipsters from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, to the Silver Lake district of Los Angeles and in the football locker of Tom Brady, not to mention on the heads of the hundreds of Trump loyalists at his rallies.
“I was certainly surprised to the extent it caught on,” Mr. Trump said in a phone interview last week. “It’s become the hottest fashion item there is.”
The hats, in four different designs, are $25 on the Trump campaign website and in Midtown at the store in the Trump Tower, where they promptly sold out.
The hats’ appeal seems to rest partly in their studied outmodedness (think the 2.0 version of the trucker hats repopularized by millennials) and partly in their uncanny ability to capture the current absurdist political moment, with 17 Republicans vying, circuslike, for their party’s nomination.
“I’m at a loss to describe the ironic charm of the hats,” said Nu Wexler, a public policy spokesman at Twitter who received one as a gift from a colleague. “It’s a huge hat that looks like something you’d wear at a golf club in South Florida in the ’80s.”
Yet, Mr. Wexler added, “I’m a liberal Democrat who probably disagrees with Trump on every issue other than campaign finance, but I still respect his Twitter game.”
Louise Simpson, a junior at the University of Chicago who interned this summer at ABC News, gave the hats to her bosses as a parting gift. “The hats are kind of like a keepsake of the summer,” she said. “It’s a joke that everyone is in on, including Donald Trump.”
But the hats are more than a knowing wink. At a recent Trump rally outside the Capitol, they floated like so many buoys in the sea of voters. Many said they wore the hats because they supported Mr. Trump, his optimistic message — an echo of Ronald Reagan’s 1980 “Let’s Make America Great Again” — and his tell-it-like-it-is ethos.
Despite the swampy heat at the rally, Alice Butler-Short managed to look elegant in her white and gold Trump hat and green patent leather wedges. “While it looks cute, I’m not wearing it for the cuteness,” she said. “I’m wearing it for the message: We need to make this country great again.”
Brendan Martin, a Democrat who ordered a hat the night of the first Republican debate, had nothing but praise for the cap — and its creator. “The guy is a marketing genius,” Mr. Martin said. “It took him wearing a hat for everyone instantaneously to know his slogan of ‘Make America Great Again.’ ”
The hat, he added, is also a great conversation piece. While wearing his, Mr. Martin has had long conversations with a conductor on a train to Albany and a security guard in Atlantic City.
Not everyone, however, is such a fan.
“Since he desecrated the Chicago skyline with the 20-foot-tall sign bearing his name, it’s clear the guy lives his life with the caps-lock key on,” said Tracy Sefl, a Democratic consultant and Hillary Rodham Clinton supporter. “So caveat emptor, hipsters. This season’s Trump trucker hat will soon go the way of ‘on fleek.’ ”
Ms. Sefl does not own the hat.

To the Editor:
Re “Trump Likens His Schooling to Military Service in Book” (news article, Sept. 9): As an honorably discharged veteran of the United States Air Force, I am eligible for burial in a military cemetery; Donald Trump is not.
There are still some things money cannot buy. 
ROBERT NEUMAN

Davis, Calif.
KIEV, Ukraine — Donald J. Trump, the Republican presidential candidate, made a brief, unusual foray into foreign affairs on Friday, appearing at a conference here via video link to suggest that the Ukraine crisis was rooted in what he called weakness by President Obama. 
Mr. Trump made two main points, both of which he kept repeating during about 20 minutes of questions and answers. Germany and the rest of Europe need to do more for Ukraine, he said, and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia felt free to invade Crimea and eastern Ukraine because he lacks respect for President Obama.
“Whether it is Germany or other countries, I don’t think you are getting the support that you need,” Mr. Trump said to mild applause here.
“Our president is not strong; so far we have all lip service,” he added. “Part of the problem that Ukraine has with the United States is that Putin does not respect our president whatsoever.”
Mr. Trump continually lavished praise on the Ukrainians, in particular a fellow billionaire, Viktor M. Pinchuk, who invited Mr. Trump to speak at the annual Yalta European Strategy conference that Mr. Pinchuk sponsors. At the two-day meeting, businessmen, politicians, academics and senior government officials — mainly from Europe and the United States — gather to focus on domestic and foreign policy issues in Ukraine.
“It is amazing what you have had to endure,” said Mr. Trump, speaking from Trump Tower with Central Park spread out behind him. “You have had to endure a tremendous amount, and I just think it is all going to work out well in the future for the Ukraine.”
Mr. Trump did not win over the entire audience. First, he kept referring to the country as “the Ukraine,” which patriotic citizens find a demeaning reference, because they view it as a Soviet formulation. They use just “Ukraine.”
Second, they would have preferred a more substantial outline of how the United States could further help the country, rather than what some considered platitudes about its future. (Other foreign speakers gave Mr. Trump some tough competition on that score, with former President Shimon Peres of Israel saying at the conference, “Don’t be depressed; a crisis is not permanent.”)
The American moderator, Douglas E. Schoen, a Washington political analyst and Fox News commentator, did not press Mr. Trump, instead praising his record as both a business executive and a candidate.
“I am a little bit concerned whether Trump can find Ukraine on the map,” said Oleksandr Bohutskyy , the president of ICTV, an independent Ukrainian television channel. “The most important question for any American presidential candidate is, ‘How will you help Ukraine?’ and he did not say anything about that.”
AMES, Iowa — It probably made sense on paper: invite presidential candidates to visit the Iowa Republican Party’s tent in the parking lot before the big Iowa vs. Iowa State football game on Saturday.
What planners did not anticipate was the portable mob scene that characterizes the candidacy of Donald J. Trump.
Arriving more than an hour late, Mr. Trump offered a speech of less than a minute on the state party’s stage. But that was beside the point, as star-struck supporters greeted him like a stadium rocker during a sprawling tailgate party before kickoff.
“Donald, you rock!” a young man shouted as Mr. Trump, encircled by a security team, walked through a parking lot.
Another man fought his way into the mob and said, “Donald, I’m wearing your hat!”
“Shook his hand. I shook his hand!” a burly student shouted to two friends, sounding faint with excitement.
Three other Republican candidates not named Trump also glad-handed and posed for selfies among the tailgating football fans before the game. But their receptions were of a different order. Rarely has the contrast between a conventional politician and the celebrity candidacy of Mr. Trump seemed clearer.
Many Iowa Republicans expected Mr. Trump’s lead in the primary race to be fleeting. On Friday night, a seasoned party activist compared him to “the bad boy you date over the summer before returning to college.”
Instead, Mr. Trump continues to dominate Iowa polls as summer turns to fall. A Quinnipiac University poll of Iowa last week showed he is the first choice of all age groups of Republicans, including young people, who predominated outside Jack Trice Stadium, where the Iowa State Cyclones hosted the Iowa Hawkeyes. 
“We’re killing everybody in the polls,” Mr. Trump said in brief remarks from the stage. He wore a new “Make America Great Again” hat, this one in camouflage.
He wished people luck with whichever team they supported, stepped down and began the walk back to his S.U.V., a knot of students and others pressing close.
Though he said nothing about the issues of the day, the audience seemed satisfied. “It was pretty cool; we got to see him,” said Braiden Loreno, a sophomore. “I’m definitely voting for him.”
The crowd of several hundred had waited more than an hour for Mr. Trump. They had chanted “Don-ald! Don-ald!” Cheers went up several times over false sightings. A sign read: “The Trump Will Set You Free.” (It was countered by a protester’s sign: “Mr. Hate, Leave My State.”)
At 2:30, the appointed hour for Mr. Trump to speak, a candidate appeared and the crowd parted to reveal. ... Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, running late.
There was no applause for Mr. Walker, who for months had led in the polls in Iowa, but whose popularity in the Quinnipiac poll was measured at 3 percent. In brief remarks, Mr. Walker promised to “wreak havoc on Washington,” as he had in Wisconsin when he faced down thousands of pro-union protesters.
Mr. Walker’s abbreviated version of his stump speech also included a veiled swipe at Mr. Trump.
“It takes more than just talk,” he said. “It takes action. Actions speak louder than words.”
Earlier, Senators Marco Rubio of Florida and Rand Paul of Kentucky worked the tailgaters, not all of whom were thrilled to have a presidential candidate and his entourage interfering with their meat grilling, beer drinking and game playing.
“Come on, bro, this is a tailgate,” Dionne Harden, an Iowa State fan, protested as Mr. Rubio walked in front of him just as he was about to toss a bean bag.
In a tent sponsored by the Iowa Corn Growers Association, Mr. Rubio faced a different kind of challenge when he was pressed on whether he supported federal support for ethanol.
“As I’ve said before, I understand if people made an investment in something, you’re not going to just take it away from them,” Mr. Rubio told a group of farmers. “But eventually I do believe these energy resources have to be self-sustaining.”
Jerry Mohr, a farmer who is chairman of the growers association, called Mr. Rubio’s position disappointing.
Mr. Rubio made a better impression on Evan Monson, an Iowa State junior, who praised him for hanging out at the Sigma Pi fraternity tailgate party. “Rubio was pretty cool,” he said.
Mr. Paul had also spoken free-market truth to the corn industry in Iowa. He visited the growers’ tent and strolled the parking lots with a more manageable level of attention than Mr. Trump.
Offered a beer, Mr. Paul pleaded that he had to fly to St. Louis later to present a Homemakers Award to his mother at a gathering of the Eagle Forum, the conservative group founded by Phyllis Schlafly.
Scott Scheidel, an insurance broker, called out to Mr. Paul. “You’re my man. Come over to my tailgate, I’ll give you the microphone,” he said. Mr. Paul greeted him but moved on.
Another fan, Keven Malec, who had driven from Illinois to visit a daughter at Iowa State, offered Mr. Paul a choice of two sandwiches he was grilling. “We’ve got a Cyclone and we’ve got a Hawkeye,” he said. “I don’t want to take sides, but the Hawkeye tastes like chicken.”
But it was Mr. Trump who dominated the show.
At a rally earlier in the day, Mr. Trump had criticized Ben Carson, the retired surgeon who has surged in Iowa polls to claim second place, for being too mild-mannered to occupy the Oval Office.
“I don’t think Ben has the energy,” Mr. Trump said. “Ben is a nice man, but when you’re negotiating against China and you’re negotiating against these Japanese guys that are going to come against you in waves, and they think we’re all a bunch of jerks because our leaders are so stupid and so incompetent and so inept, we need people that are really smart, that have tremendous deal-making skills and that have great, great energy.”
His visit to the Ames tailgate scene, though short, was memorable. After his remarks, he made his way through the parking lot, then climbed into a waiting black Suburban. He rolled down his window, and as he shot out his arm to wave goodbye, a diamond cuff link sparkled in the sun.
On the debate stage, Jeb Bush has committed the sin of over-explanation, answering a pithy 1994 attack on his business career with so many details about leases and debts that a baffled crowd erupted into boos.
He has delivered high-minded put-downs, promising in a 1998 face-off to establish a charter school “for people that distort the facts” and mischievously guaranteeing admission to his opponent.
And he has mangled seemingly simple sentences, vowing in a 2002 confrontation that “we can make Florida a bright — have a brighter future for — for all Floridians.”
In a Republican presidential debate season dominated by glib showmanship and volcanic personality, Mr. Bush, the former governor of Florida, faces a daunting challenge: How can he excite primary voters during Wednesday’s televised rumpus with a sober and cerebral style that can appear tepid next to the insult-spraying, nuance-avoidant, made-for-TV manner of Donald J. Trump?
Now, after failing to directly confront Mr. Trump, the current front-runner, during the first debate, Mr. Bush and his aides are under pressure to create a memorable showdown with the real estate developer to match a newly aggressive tone on the campaign trail.
Since the first debate, Mr. Bush has mocked Mr. Trump’s immigration plan as “unrealistic,” released a biting  online ad that captures Mr. Trump praising Hillary Rodham Clinton and accused Mr. Trump of trying to “insult his way to the presidency.”
In rigorous practice sessions that have crisscrossed the country in the past few weeks, Mr. Bush has been preparing pointed responses to Mr. Trump’s most frequent insults (he has called Mr. Bush “low energy” and a slave to donors) and crafting lines of attack on Mr. Trump’s history of liberal statements and unconventional policy plans, according to those who have been told of the plans.
“He has to challenge Trump now,” said Mac Stipanovich, an adviser to Mr. Bush during his 1994 campaign for governor who helped prepare him for debates that year. “He has to stand toe to toe with him and call him out.”
The difficulty for Mr. Bush, who has portrayed himself as the most mature and civil figure in the Republican presidential field, is how to inflict damage on Mr. Trump in front of a live national audience without diminishing himself in the process — a tricky task given Mr. Trump’s lust for the fierce counterpunch and Mr. Bush’s disdain for memorizing sound bites.
“Jeb is a nice man. He likes people. He wants people to like him,” said Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker, who dominated several Republican debates during the 2012 presidential campaign. “He is up against a barroom brawler. And I think against barroom brawlers, if you are a nice man, you are better off keeping your distance.”
Interviews with current and former advisers to Mr. Bush and reviews of video footage from his debates as a candidate for governor reveal him to be a debater with as many deficits as strengths. On stage, his mastery of policy is almost unrivaled, but he struggles to synthesize it in compelling ways. He is capable of telegraphing deep compassion in one moment, but can convey unmistakable peevishness in the next. He defaults to analytical earnestness, rarely offering flashes of humor.
For better or worse, advisers acknowledge, his brand is self-seriousness.
“His style,” said Sally Bradshaw, a top Bush campaign adviser, “is substance.”
“His candidacy,” she added, “is not based on theatrics.”
Theatrics have failed Mr. Bush at times. During a dramatic 1994 exchange in Tampa, he dared the sitting governor of Florida, Lawton Chiles, to look into the eyes of Mr. Bush’s business partner, who sat a few feet away in the audience, and repeat an attack on the two men’s ethics.
“I know you don’t respect me, but I know you respect Armando Codina,” Mr. Bush said. “Can you look him in the eye and say that we’ve done anything wrong?”
Mr. Chiles, deploying his Southern drawl and a gift for outmaneuvering opponents, looked toward Mr. Codina, smiled and reflected on the businessman’s wisdom in hiring the son of an American president.
“I think,” Mr. Chiles declared, “he made a good business decision when he took you on as a partner.”
The audience broke into loud laughter. A few days later, Mr. Bush lost the election.
Mr. Bush has participated in about a dozen official debates since first running for public office that year. The majority of those encounters have been one on one with Democratic rivals, lacking the unpredictability of a crowded stage, like Wednesday night’s forum. After losing the 1994 election to Mr. Chiles, he prevailed in the 1998 governor’s race against Buddy MacKay, Mr. Chiles’s lieutenant governor, and in his 2002 re-election race against Bill McBride, a lawyer.
In many ways, Mr. Bush’s general election debates against Mr. MacKay are a model for how he might treat Mr. Trump in the long term. Mr. MacKay set aside his usual regal bearing and relentlessly attacked Mr. Bush as an inexperienced, untrustworthy child of privilege. Mr. Bush’s strategy was simple: deftly defend himself, sow doubts about his rival, but avoid excessive confrontation to magnify Mr. MacKay’s smoldering temper.
In a 1998 debate, when he was asked about his business dealing with a Nigerian corporation, Mr. Bush pivoted to discuss a controversial investment that had earned Mr. MacKay $500,000. But instead of mocking it, he suggested, generously, that there was nothing scandalous about the profit.
“I’m happy that the MacKay family made half a million bucks on a good investment,” Mr. Bush said, “I don’t see anything wrong with that. I applaud you for doing that.”
Mr. MacKay looked slightly dazed.
Seventeen years later, Mr. MacKay said he had miscalculated. “I expected him to be more negative than he was,” he said in an interview last week. “I may have been too negative myself, as a matter of fact.”
In the same debate, Mr. Bush showed unexpected humility when asked about his relationship with Florida’s black voters, who had flocked to his opponent four years earlier. “Republicans have ignored the black vote in this state, and I was part of that, and it was a mistake,” Mr. Bush said.
His tendency to cram as much information as possible into an answer has diminished since 1994, when he became entangled in a long-winded explanation of a real estate transaction. He described a maze of leases “we had to assume,” a debt “borrowed by an investor in the deal” and “specific obligations.”
But the habit resurfaces now and then.
“His mind rebels against the oversimplification that passes for succinctness in the television debate,” said Mr. Stipanovich, the 1994 adviser. “Instinctively he finds it incomplete and unsatisfying. So he over-answers.”
As Mr. Bush prepares for a televised brawl with Mr. Trump, that 1994 debate against the wily Mr. Chiles looms larger than ever, a searing lesson about the dangers of taking on an unpredictable opponent.
Midway through that face-off, which seemed like an agonizing draw, Mr. Bush, the newcomer, suggested that Mr. Chiles, the incumbent, had lied to “strike fear in the hearts of the voters.”
Mr. Chiles stood silently, resting an elbow on the lectern and taking it all in. Then, peering over at Mr. Bush and jabbing his finger, Mr. Chiles delivered an unscripted line about himself that changed the course of the campaign.
“I want to call attention to this old, liberal liar,” Mr. Chiles said self-mockingly, pausing for effect. “The old he-coon walks just before the light of day.”
The camera captured a seemingly baffled Mr. Bush looking around the room and then toward the moderator, NBC’s Tim Russert. Neither candidate’s aides had any idea what Mr. Chiles meant. But across the state, an entire generation of native Floridians understood.
The he-coon is the oldest and wisest member of a raccoon pack, a cunning hunter who knows exactly when to strike. Mr. Chiles used the old Southernism to make it clear: He was not done being governor yet.
“Jeb was speechless,” Mr. Stipanovich recalled. “He didn’t know how to respond.”
“At that moment,” he said, “Lawton Chiles defeated Jeb Bush.”
I am rooting for Donald Trump.
Not because I want to see him attempt to build an impenetrable wall along the border with Mexico nor because I’ve been following his grotesque campaign with the kind of guilty gusto that got me hooked on the reality show “Here Comes Honey Boo Boo.”
I’m rooting for Donald Trump because he could unlock the potential of America’s Latino electorate.
Hispanics, among the fastest-growing of all segments of eligible voters, played a crucial role in President Obama’s two elections. Yet, over the past couple of decades, pollsters and political operatives have regarded the Latino vote as a sleeping giant waiting for the right jolt.
Hispanics have understandably responded to the xenophobic Trump campaign — which has hardened the immigration positions of other Republican candidates — with outrage. But many political organizers see him as a godsend.
“Quite frankly, it’s the best thing that can happen to us as community leaders to convince people that not participating in civic life has consequences,” said Ben Monterroso, the executive director of Mi Familia Vota Education Fund, one of several organizations that are mounting an ambitious effort to get Latinos to vote in 2016. “They’re challenging the Latino community to see if we’re going to be able to defend ourselves at the ballot box.”
In 2012, 48 percent of eligible Latino voters cast ballots in the presidential election, lagging behind white and African-American voters, whose turnout rates were 64 percent and 67 percent, respectively. Eligible voters of Mexican origin had an even lower turnout, 42 percent.
An estimated 5.4 million Latinos are eligible to become American citizens but have yet to take that step, making them by far the largest pool of non-naturalized immigrants who could become eligible to vote by 2016. Among them, Mexicans have been the least likely to naturalize. The cost of the process, roughly $680, and anxiety about taking a civics test are among the reasons many Latinos have not become citizens.
In 2016, an estimated 26.7 million Latinos will be eligible to vote, 58 percent more than a decade ago.
Mr. Trump has promised to deport millions of unauthorized immigrants, seize the remittances Mexican immigrants send to relatives back home and charge the Mexican government for the wall he intends to build. His vision, which, unmistakably, is to “Make America White Again,” has triggered outrage in Latinos of diverse backgrounds, nationalities, political outlooks and immigration statuses.
His campaign antagonized Univision, the dominant Spanish-language news network, and put its top anchor, Jorge Ramos, on a warpath. The Cuban-American singer Pitbull delivered an impassioned speech denouncing Mr. Trump. The Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin wrote an op-ed article saying Trump’s candidacy “makes my blood boil.” The Colombian star Shakira called the boorish candidate “hateful and racist.” The Latin music moguls Emilio and Gloria Estefan are enlisting other artists to record a track titled “We’re All Mexican” to convey how much the candidacy has inflamed the community.
“When you’re attacked, belittled, characterized as being unworthy and subhuman, it has an effect of unifying and leading to collective action,” said Cristóbal Alex, president of the Latino Victory Project, one of the leading national groups seeking to increase Latino political clout. “It has folks angry, and our job is to take that anger and turn it into action.”
What is unfolding nationally is reminiscent of the 1994 initiative championed by Pete Wilson, a Republican who was then governor of California, that sought to bar undocumented immigrants from attending public schools and seeking medical care.
The measure, which passed but was never carried out, drove Latino immigrants to become naturalized in droves and register to vote. Largely as a result, California became a solidly Democratic state, where running on an anti-immigrant platform is today broadly regarded as political suicide.
Seeking to replicate that model in battleground states and those that could ultimately flip from red to blue, several well-financed liberal groups are working to register voters and persuade permanent residents to become citizens in Florida, Nevada, Colorado, Texas and Arizona. The Dallas chapter of Catholic Charities is on track to assist with 840 citizenship applications this year, a twofold increase from five years ago, when the effort began.
“People are up in arms,” said Vanna Slaughter, the head of that chapter’s immigration unit, referring to anti-immigrant messages that the current crop of Republican candidates has amplified.
Latinos are far from monolithic in their views and politics. There are plenty of libertarians and social conservatives who are drawn to Republican principles and policies. Some want even more restrictive immigration policies.
But the vast majority of us feel strongly that America desperately needs immigration reform that offers unauthorized immigrants a path to citizenship. The current Republican candidates are making a fundamental mistake by making Latinos feel unwelcome at home.
“Donald Trump can disappear tomorrow,” Mr. Monterroso said. “But the damage is done.”
Donald Trump is hurting all his fellow Republican presidential candidates, though some more than others. Rick Perry, who suspended his campaign on Friday, is at the top of that list but is far from alone.
To assess the flow of support among the many candidates since Mr. Trump entered the race in June, I turned to panel data collected by the survey research firm YouGov. In August, the firm re-interviewed 1,418 people it first interviewed in May.
Because the first wave of interviews was done before it was known Mr. Trump would declare, nearly every Republican in the survey had an initial preference for someone other than him; in fact, the survey didn’t even ask about him. The results from the second survey, done in August, reveal whether voters 1) stuck with their initial choice; 2) moved to someone else; 3) moved to Mr. Trump.
Of the 608 Republicans in the survey, 54 percent moved off their initial choice — 20 percent to Mr. Trump and 34 percent to one of the other candidates.
The survey also revealed information about Mr. Trump’s supporters. Voters who moved his way were less educated and older than those who stayed with their initial choice or those who switched to another candidate. They were also more likely to describe themselves as conservatives, but not strong ones. Going to church regularly made people less likely to switch to Mr. Trump, but being Tea Party members made them slightly more likely to do so.
These voters came to Mr. Trump from all of the other candidates, but a disproportionate share of voters for Mr. Perry and Chris Christie abandoned them for Mr. Trump. Mr. Perry lost more than 60 percent of his May support to Mr. Trump, perhaps a harbinger of things to come.
Mr. Christie lost 57 percent. In contrast, Jeb Bush lost only 14 percent of his early support to Mr. Trump, the least of any candidate. (Granted, Mr. Christie and Mr. Perry did not start with large numbers of voters in this survey, so any defections made a bigger dent in their shares.)
The survey also asked people to choose a runner-up for their vote in the primary. Among those whose first choice was Mr. Trump, some said they would return to the candidate they sided with in May. Nearly 60 percent of the Ted Cruz supporters from May who switched to Mr. Trump said they would return to Mr. Cruz if their first choice were eliminated. Mr. Christie and Mr. Bush would get about a third of their straying voters back, while Mike Huckabee and Mr. Perry would see less than a fifth come home.
Scott Walker, who had emerged as an early strong contender for the nomination, lost 21 percent of his initial support to Mr. Trump, and 32 percent of them said they would come back.
Whose voters were the most loyal? Almost 70 percent of John Kasich’s supporters from the spring stuck with him through the summer. Rand Paul, Mr. Cruz and Mr. Bush also held on to 40 to 50 percent of their early fans.
If Mr. Trump left the race tomorrow, this survey finds that the biggest share of his supporters would go to Ben Carson, who would collect 18 percent of Mr. Trump’s current supporters. Carly Fiorina is next in line, followed by Mr. Cruz and Mr. Rubio, each garnering around 12 percent of Mr. Trump’s voters.
All of this shifting by voters among the candidates underscores a clear pattern in primaries: They are volatile. Primary campaigns are a lot more dynamic than general election campaigns, mainly because of the lack of party identification as an organizing force and the importance of news media coverage in shaping people’s choices.
Donald J. Trump has criticized Carly Fiorina’s looks, saying of his only female Republican rival: “Look at that face! Would anybody vote for that?” He has said that listening to Mrs. Fiorina’s voice gives him a “massive headache.” He has mocked her business career, and has gleefully declared how “viciously” she was fired by Hewlett-Packard.
On Wednesday, Mr. Trump will share a stage with Mrs. Fiorina for the first time, in the second Republican presidential debate.
Political strategists warn male candidates to use caution when debating against a female rival. But never before in American presidential politics has a candidate who has drawn  accusations of sexism and bullying been forced to personally confront the female recipient of his insults on live television. And with Mrs. Fiorina bragging that she is getting under Mr. Trump’s skin, their showdown is emerging as one of the most intriguing subplots of the second debate.
In the first Republican debate last month, Mr. Trump defended having called women “fat pigs” and “disgusting animals,” and he later implied that the moderator, Megyn Kelly of Fox News, had asked him tough questions because she was menstruating, a comment that got him disinvited from an influential conservative gathering where Mrs. Fiorina gave a rousing speech.
Mrs. Fiorina stood out in the “undercard” of the first Republican debate, and since then she has edged up in polls to earn a spot on the main stage with Mr. Trump. But the presence of the two has prompted concern — and a lot of curiosity — in a party eager to take on Hillary Rodham Clinton and worried about how Mr. Trump will fare in debating against a woman.
“I’m not going to call her honey,” Mr. Trump said in an interview last week. But he added of Mrs. Fiorina: “Look, she’s only got 3 percent in the polls, so in order to get recognition, I think she’ll start hitting me. So I think she’s fair game.”
Mr. Trump said he was preparing to criticize the record — and not the appearance — of Mrs. Fiorina, who was fired as the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard and, like Mr. Trump, has never held elected office.
“I want to talk about her corporate history, her failures at Hewlett-Packard,” Mr. Trump said. “And that will be damaging enough to her.”
The usual rules of decorum have so far not applied to Mr. Trump, whose standing in the polls has only increased after incendiary comments about women, immigrants and Senator John McCain’s war record. But while his derision of two opponents — Jeb Bush (“low energy”) and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin (“failed governor”) — has coincided with their decline in the polls, Mrs. Fiorina has gained ground as Mr. Trump has showered insults on her.
Mrs. Fiorina responded to Mr. Trump’s comments in Rolling Stone  magazine (“Can you imagine that, the face of our next president?”) by telling Fox News, “Maybe, just maybe, I am just getting under his skin a little bit because I am climbing in the polls.”
Mr. Trump eventually said that he was referring to Mrs. Fiorina’s “persona” when he made the remarks about her face.
Mrs. Fiorina, 61, has said that, as a successful woman, “you’re either a bimbo or you’re the other b-word,” and that “there is no glass ceiling.” She is often defensive when asked about whether her gender has helped her get ahead, and yet she has seized on her position as the only woman in the 16-person Republican field.
Mrs. Fiorina started her long-shot candidacy by taking direct aim at Mrs. Clinton, but she now appears poised to be the best candidate to bring out the side of Mr. Trump that has drawn accusations of misogyny — a tactic some Republicans hope Mrs. Fiorina will embrace on Wednesday.
“Instead of shutting him down, there’s a way to pat poor Donald, the chauvinistic pig, on the head,” said Rob Stutzman, a Republican strategist in Sacramento.
Mr. Trump said he would not be chauvinistic.
“I wouldn’t do that; I won’t do that,” he said. “Though, if I did — well, people would just hit me with political correctness, which, again people are so tired of.”
In the first undercard debate, Mrs. Fiorina seemed prepared and calm under pressure. Her rivals treated her mostly with respect or deference, but the stakes will be higher on Wednesday. Mrs. Fiorina and her supporters aggressively lobbied CNN to alter its criteria for picking candidates for the next Republican debate, securing a spot for her on the main stage.
“This is going to be a defining moment in Carly’s career,” said Boris Feldman, a Silicon Valley lawyer and one of her supporters.
“What’s selling tickets to this is the Trump-Carly card,” he said. “Trump has a thing about anybody questioning him, but especially a woman.”
Mr. Feldman and others close to Mrs. Fiorina expect her to portray Mr. Trump as not being a real Republican, and to call out his inconsistent positions on economic and social issues.
Mrs. Fiorina has a bare-bones campaign staff and has been preparing for the debate by adjusting her standard responses and zingers to fit into the succinct format. She works mostly in a sunny room of her Colonial-style Virginia home with her husband, Frank, and their two Yorkshire terriers, Max and Snickers, nearby, and she communicates with aides on a speaker phone.
Mrs. Fiorina declined to comment for this article.
Political strategists on both sides advised Mrs. Fiorina either to ignore any potentially sexist attacks by Mr. Trump or to engage him in a way that is different from what the men onstage do.
“If I were her, I would have a little fun with Trump,” said former Representative Patricia Schroeder of Colorado, who sought the Democratic presidential nomination in 1988. She suggested that Mrs. Fiorina cover her face with her hand and say, “I don’t want to upset or distract you, Donald, if my face really bothers you.”
Debating female candidates can be perilous even for men who do not have Mr. Trump’s reputation for insulting women, which includes calling a female lawyer “disgusting” after she took out a breast pump, and joking about oral sex with a female contestant on NBC’s “The Celebrity Apprentice.”
As Joseph R. Biden Jr., a senator at the time, prepared for his vice-presidential debate against Gov. Sarah Palin of Alaska in 2008, he received some very clear rules from his advisers, according to several people who helped him plan: Don’t correct her, don’t belittle her, don’t mock or diminish her.
“Carly Fiorina is a better debater than Governor Palin, and she has a great capacity to take on Donald Trump,” said former Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm of Michigan, who played Ms. Palin in Mr. Biden’s mock debate sessions.
Mr. Trump’s plan to attack Mrs. Fiorina’s corporate record could make an effective impression. Voters know little about the layoffs during her rocky tenure at Hewlett-Packard or about her $21 million severance package, something that Senator Barbara Boxer of California highlighted in their 2010 Senate race. Ms. Boxer defeated Mrs. Fiorina by 10 percentage points.
“They’ll understand pretty quickly that she is the face of income inequality and Wall Street greed,” Ms. Boxer said in an interview. (Mrs. Fiorina has said the layoffs and her subsequent firing were reflective of the bold leadership she brought to the company.)
Deborah Bowker, a close friend and an aide to Mrs. Fiorina, said that after years of being surrounded by men in corporate America, Mrs. Fiorina was unfazed by Mr. Trump.
“This isn’t the first time she’s been confronted by someone making a crazy comment,” Ms. Bowker said. “She has had comments about her looks, her clothes, whatever.”
That is at least one point on which Mr. Trump and Mrs. Fiorina can agree. “I think she’s a strong woman,” he said in the interview last week. “She can handle any criticism of her, and she can defend herself.”
Donald J. Trump has sold the Miss Universe Organization to the talent agency WME-IMG, the company announced on Monday.
The sale, the financial terms of which were not disclosed, came after a rough summer for the organization’s Miss USA beauty pageant in which two television partners dropped the broadcast in response to comments Mr. Trump made about illegal immigrants during his presidential campaign.
NBC, a part owner of the Miss Universe Organization, backed out of the broadcast and also said that Mr. Trump would not be welcomed back as the host of “The Celebrity Apprentice.” (NBC announced Monday that Arnold Schwarzenegger would replace him). Mr. Trump filed a $500 million lawsuit against the pageant’s other television partner, the Spanish-language broadcaster Univision.
On Friday, NBC confirmed that it had sold its stake in the Miss Universe Organization to Mr. Trump. It appears that sale was just the prelude for Mr. Trump to spin off the entire organization — which includes the Miss USA, Miss Teen USA and Miss Universe pageants — to WME-IMG.
“When I purchased the pageants many years ago, they were in serious trouble,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. “It has been a great honor making them so successful, and I have really enjoyed watching the pageants grow throughout the U.S.A. and worldwide.”
One of the first tasks for WME-IMG will be to find a new TV partner for Miss USA. After NBC backed out of the broadcast, it was picked up by the cable channel Reelz, and had a significantly smaller viewership: 925,000 viewers compared with the 5.6 million people that watched it on NBC last year. The chief executive of Reelz, Stan E. Hubbard, said last month that the Miss USA broadcast was a one-time event for the cable channel and that the beauty pageant belonged “on a broadcast network.”
DALLAS — The revelers gathered on the plaza hours early, the main attraction’s likeness splashed across their T-shirts, buttons and, occasionally, body parts.
They chanted puns (“Trump up the jam!”). They insulted Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana. They shouted down a Hispanic man from a local radio station who had offered attendees the choice to whack or hug a Trump piñata.
And when the star appeared just after 6:30 p.m. on Monday, fans cheered by the thousands to remind Donald J. Trump that the “silent majority” he has hailed — in the Nixonian echo of his candidacy — seems to require some tweaking.
“It’s back,” Mr. Trump said in a basketball arena here with most seats filled, “and it’s not silent.”
On Monday, Mr. Trump brought his campaign-cum-roadshow to Texas, delivering his searing indictment of Washington politics, his Republican rivals and many others to a crowd that began funneling into the American Airlines Center well before his scheduled start time.
He assailed Jeb Bush, whose mention inspired raucous boos, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, who attracted an even louder chorus. “Well, Jeb’s more popular than one person,” Mr. Trump said.
He praised Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, conditionally: “If he comes out and attacks me on Wednesday night,” he said of the second Republican debate, “I will take it back immediately.”
Most forcefully, Mr. Trump lamented what he described as a scourge of undocumented immigration, a stance that has helped fuel his rise to the top of the polls.
“Many of these gang members are illegal immigrants. They’re rough dudes,” he said to swelling cheers, adding that they would not remain in the country long on his watch.
Like most Trump outings in recent weeks, the campaign stop doubled as a television event of sorts, a reality that Mr. Trump clearly relished during a characteristically meandering speech that lasted over an hour.
Turning to the cameras assembled before him, he said that, unlike other candidates, he was required to produce fresh material for every stump speech.
“Every time I speak they put me on live television,” he said, “so I have to make different speeches.”
Mr. Trump’s confidence remained undiminished: He appraised himself as an unrivaled builder, a self-funder unencumbered by political “blood money” and an all-around winner of the highest order.
Poll numbers were broached frequently, with Mr. Trump complaining of a purported rounding conspiracy.
“I’m at 40, and it’s actually 41, but they don’t want to say that,” he said referring to his percentage of support. “If I’m at 40.9, they’ll say I’m at 40.”
He vowed to improve America’s standing in the world, citing his experience as a negotiator, and repeated a call to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, though the details of this endeavor remained murky.
A supporter suggested a name from the rafters: DonaldCare.
“Thank you!” Mr. Trump said. “We’ll call it DonaldCare.”
His closing remarks drew upon the mantra etched across his signature campaign hat.
“You’re going to say to your children, and you’re going to say to anybody else, that we were part of a movement to take back our country,” he said. “And we will make America great again.”
Earlier, some in the crowd had become a bit restless when Mr. Trump remained out of sight for about 30 minutes after the announced start time for his speech.
One speaker, who had just introduced him, offered a reason for the delay: “He’s back there,” she said, gesturing offstage, “doing exceptional things.”
Before the event, several people sought to replicate what they saw as Mr. Trump’s capitalist spirit. Working the plaza, Rick Snowden and Janet Newlon moved to sell the last of their Trump swag: 24 hats, 36 visors and 100 buttons, driven here from Tennessee.
Mr. Snowden is an entrepreneur, he said. Just like Mr. Trump.
“It’s very attractive to think of a candidate who’s not beholden,” Mr. Snowden said. He added that the gathering called to mind a Barry Goldwater rally he had attended in 1964.
A man who identified himself as Jake Byrd — who appeared to be a performance artist, with past appearances on the “Jimmy Kimmel Live” television show — said Mr. Trump had been treated unfairly in the news media, singling out Mr. Trump’s past comments about “the blacks” in reference to African-Americans. He turned to two African-American women, covered in Trump buttons, to make his case.
“Uh,” said one of the women, Beckie Hayes of Fort Worth, “we haven’t picked up on that one yet.”
Demonstrators from the League of United Latin American Citizens held a march outside the event to protest Mr. Trump’s caustic words about immigrants.
A leader of the group, Christopher Enriquez, said before the event that Mr. Trump’s popularity had dimmed his view of the nation’s progress, and of the residents of Dallas, where Mr. Enriquez has spent his life.
“I’m surprised that so many people think alike,” he said, scanning a crowd of hundreds outside before the speech.
A protester unaffiliated with the group, Julio Quiroz, 25, wore a clown wig and held a sign disparaging Mr. Trump.
But as the gates to the arena opened soon after, comity remained within reach. Mr. Byrd, the cheeky Trump supporter, wandered over to Mr. Quiroz to defend his candidate. Mr. Quiroz held firm, politely, laughing occasionally.
Mr. Byrd moved in for a hug.
“I’m going to build a wall around this Mexican,” he said, drawing Mr. Quiroz near.
Given the widespread expectation that corporate bonds and loans will soon be stress tested by rising interest rates, much to the delight of restructuring professionals everywhere, you might think that bondholders would be seeking extra protection as they approach the impending storm.
But according to a recent report,  you would be wrong. The covenant quality of North American high-yield bonds reached a new record low in August, says Moody’s Investors Service. This is based on their covenant quality index, which is a three-month rolling average covenant quality score.
In short, impending storm or not, it seems that the quest for a reasonable yield is still trumping all else in the debt markets. This is somewhat like knowing your car is about to crash, but declining to use the seatbelts anyway.
The effect will be seen in future restructurings, where flailing companies are apt to be real basket cases by the point they actually default. With few or any covenants to breach, it takes real effort to default, after all.
This comes in a world where the secured creditor is already king. Between blanket liens and asset-based loans that ensure senior creditor at the point of default, and even before, the addition of another layer of indebtedness will not help matters.
The end result is that the next wave of Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases will probably feature lots of quick sales, where the company is handed over to the senior lenders. It seems doubtful this is consistent with the original vision of Chapter 11 as a means to maximize the going concern value of companies, for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Can anything be done about it? In a recent article, I suggested that directors should have a fiduciary duty to think long and hard before they put liens on all of the company’s assets. But until a court adopts that position, its just another academic theory.
So the answer to the question, at least is the short run, seems to be “no.”
A deep-pocketed conservative organization with a long list of Republican scalps said on Tuesday that it would launch a major ad campaign aimed at Donald J. Trump in an effort to weaken him among the voters who have made him an unlikely but powerful force in the Republican presidential race.
The group, Club for Growth, is focusing its considerable firepower first on Iowa, where Mr. Trump has leapt to a significant lead over more conventionally credentialed Republican candidates, panicking Republican leaders. The group will spend $1 million on advertising in the state starting on Thursday, with plans for further spending in the weeks ahead, the club’s president, David M. McIntosh, announced at a news conference in Washington on Tuesday.
“The Club for Growth is committed to seeing this all the way through,” Mr. McIntosh said, explaining that the group would also use mail and online outlets to carry its message and was considering joining with other conservative or Republican groups. “We’ll continue doing it until people realize that Donald Trump is not an economic conservative.”
The club is employing a two-pronged approach to try to discredit the candidate. It is utilizing Mr. Trump’s previous liberal policy views to argue that his campaign promises are disingenuous. And it is highlighting his use of eminent domain as a developer to suggest that Mr. Trump has a record of hurting middle class Americans to bolster his own business interests.
One ad, titled “Politician,” features clips of Mr. Trump voicing his more liberal positions on those issues. It warns conservatives that “he’s really just playing us for chumps.”
“Donald Trump is the worst Republican candidate on economic issues,” Mr. McIntosh said in a statement. “It’s astonishing that he’s even running as a Republican.”
The announcement marks the first serious and sustained attempt to defang Mr. Trump by any moneyed force in the Republican Party. It is a test Mr. Trump, for all his apparent strength, has yet to face.
No other conservative group, candidate, or faction has yet been willing to invest significant cash in bringing Mr. Trump down. Opposing candidates appear more worried about husbanding their cash, or spending it to improve their own credentials with voters, while establishment Republican forces, flush with money, fear that an attack will only heighten Mr. Trump’s appeal to angry G.O.P. voters.
Mr. Trump was quick to respond. On Twitter, he called the club “little respected” and said it had solicited a $1 million contribution from him just this last spring. “Now they are spending lobbyist and special interest money on ads!” Mr. Trump charged.
The new effort comes on the eve of the second major Republican debate, after months in which Mr. Trump has seemed to float above virtually any criticism from fellow party members. Some fellow Republicans worry that his coarse comments about women and immigrants will undercut the party’s carefully calibrated effort to broaden its appeal for 2016. At the same time, some conservatives are worried that Mr. Trump’s success will spur other candidates to adopt his populist stances on taxes and free trade.
The Club for Growth now finds itself playing an unaccustomed role. For years, the group has battled with the Republican establishment, pouring millions of dollars into fierce campaigns against incumbent lawmakers deemed unreliable on economic issues. Now the group seems to be riding to the rescue, investing serious money against Mr. Trump at a time when his rivals have offered only YouTube videos and occasional barbs on the campaign trail.
“The Club for Growth beats to its own drum,” said Ari Fleischer, who worked under President George W. Bush and was a co-author of a 2013 Republican National Committee report diagnosing the party’s demographic and technological challenges in the presidential arena. “But for a change, this time they’re playing in tune with the party establishment. Add this to the long and growing list of what an odd primary this has been so far.”
Representative Tom Cole, a Republican from Oklahoma, has been targeted by the Club for Growth over the years but seemed to welcome their involvement in the presidential race. “They want the Republican nominee that has a philosophy that mirrors their philosophy,” Mr. Cole said in an interview. “When they see someone who is gaining stream who doesn’t share those views, they are going to get involved. “
Mr. Cole observed that Mr. Trump’s rivals for the nomination have been stepping up their attacks against him, but suggested that the traditional Republican establishment might face a struggle trying to stifle Mr. Trump with such a prevailing anti-establishment mood in the air. He said he doubted that a television ad campaign could do much to sway opinions about a marketing master such as Mr. Trump, but that it could help with the group’s own fund-raising.
“The Club for Growth has thousands of people that contribute and believe in it,” he said. “This is like an alarm signal to them.”
Reed Galen, a Republican consultant who worked on John McCain’s 2008 presidential campaign, said it could take weeks to see any effect out of the ads, and noted that Mr. Trump had a knack for using free media — such as television appearances — to counterattack.
“The club has to spend $1 million,” Mr. Galen said. “Donald goes on ‘Today.’ ”
The club is also raising money for five other candidates in the nominating contest, each of whom has been eclipsed to some extent by Mr. Trump’s rise: Senators Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida, Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, and Jeb Bush, the former Florida governor.
Allies of the club said the new campaign was consistent with its past activism, even if the group’s interests now align with longtime critics: Mr. Trump, a former Democrat who has supported higher taxes and national health care, is a recent — and in the club’s mind, insincere — convert to conservative ideas.
Yet Mr. Trump is also unlike the moderate Republicans the club usually targets: He draws his support from across Republican ranks, including many Tea Party activists and conservative voters with whom groups like the club are typically aligned.
Mr. McIntosh said he was confident the club’s core message — the billionaire candidate is really “just a politician” — would resonate with voters who are captivated by his outsider status.
“I think the American people are wiser than that,” he said. "They’ll get it.”
Republicans increasingly think that Donald J. Trump has the best chance of winning the 2016 presidential election as their nominee as confidence fades in traditional politicians like Jeb Bush and Scott Walker, according to the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll.
Although Republicans have reservations about Mr. Trump and voters often end up embracing candidates who lagged in early polls, the billionaire businessman appears to be gaining acceptance as a possible nominee.
The poll found that 39 percent of Republican primary and caucus voters viewed Mr. Trump as their best shot at winning the presidency, compared with 26 percent in a CBS survey in August. Only 15 percent said they would not back him as the party’s standard-bearer.
Ben Carson, another Republican with no history in the political establishment, is also gaining notable new support and is now running nearly even with Mr. Trump. Mr. Carson, a retired neurosurgeon who delivers his socially conservative message and outsider views in more measured tones than Mr. Trump, rose to 23 percent; he had 6 percent early last month before a widely praised performance in the first Republican debate. Mr. Trump draws 27 percent support in the new poll, compared with 24 percent last month.
The second Republican debate will be Wednesday evening at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif.
Among Democrats, uneasiness with Hillary Rodham Clinton is growing and creating a possible opening for Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., as he considers making a late entry to seek the party’s nomination. Mrs. Clinton has lost the support of a majority of male Democratic voters and has also had a seven-point drop in support from Democratic women. Her lead over Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has shrunk from 41 percentage points to 20 points. Nearly six in 10 Democrats said they wanted to see Mr. Biden join the race, although it is not unusual for voters to seek additional choices early on.
The presidential race at this moment — a personality-driven free-for-all among 16 insiders and outsiders on the Republican side, an endless political therapy session about angst over Mrs. Clinton on the Democratic side — is so unsettled that national polls can be unreliable predictors this far out from voting for party nominees, which begins in February. At this stage eight years ago, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Fred D. Thompson led the Republican field, and Mrs. Clinton held an 18-point lead over then-Senator Barack Obama in a Times/CBS News poll.
The current New York Times/CBS News Poll was conducted from Sept. 9 to 13 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus six percentage points for Republican and Democratic primary voters.
The establishment candidates are battling fierce headwinds from a party electorate that vastly prefers a nominee from the business or private sector rather than a traditional politician, by 48 percent to 9 percent. Mr. Bush, a former Florida governor, and Mr. Walker, the governor of Wisconsin, have lost the most support by far since delivering what many analysts called lackluster performances in the August debate. Eleven percent of Republicans viewed Mr. Bush as best positioned to win in the general election, compared with 23 percent in August; only 2 percent thought Mr. Walker was most likely to win, down from 8 percent.
Carolyn Dillard, a 55-year-old Republican who is moving from Virginia to Florida, said in a follow-up interview that she was supporting Mr. Trump because he was “not your typical politician who says everything that is politically correct.” She credited him with targeting the national debt and illegal immigration.
“I want somebody who is able to stand tall and say there are serious issues in this country and they need to be addressed,” said Ms. Dillard, a retired teacher and computer specialist. “We give Iran billions and our bridges are collapsing? Seriously? I’m more interested in leadership experience than political experience.”
Republicans showing the greatest political momentum in the poll were the three outsiders: Mr. Trump, who drew strong support from self-described moderates, people with family incomes of $50,000 or less, and those without a college degree; Mr. Carson, who edged out Mr. Trump among conservatives and wealthier voters and was much stronger among college graduates; and Carly Fiorina, a former business executive who had support from 4 percent of Republicans, an improvement over her trace amount in August.
“I like Ben Carson because he’s not government, and I’m tired of government,” said Doug May, 70, a retired chief information officer in Bluffton, S.C. Mr. May added, referring to the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin: “What worries me the most about Donald Trump is what he would do if put into a situation where he is sitting down with Putin. With his mouth, I have no idea what he would say to people.”
Democratic voters seem more enthusiastic about Mrs. Clinton as the party’s possible nominee than Republicans do about Mr. Trump. Forty-eight percent of Democrats said they would support her enthusiastically, and 35 percent of Republicans said the same of Mr. Trump.
In the face of growing dissatisfaction among voters over all for Mrs. Clinton’s explanation about using a personal email server as secretary of state, female Democrats are starting to fall away — and male party members even more so. Thirty-nine percent of male Democrats now support her, down from 53 percent, and 54 percent of Democratic women backed her compared with 61 percent in August. One-quarter of Democratic voters said they were mostly dissatisfied with her explanations on the email issue.
While Democrats give Mrs. Clinton high marks for leadership, her rating on honesty and trustworthiness has fallen 10 percentage points from August, to 64 percent. Long the choice of a majority of Democrats, Mrs. Clinton now draws support from 47 percent of them; Mr. Sanders improved his standing by 10 points, to 27 percent.
Mr. Biden’s theoretical support largely comes from people who would vote for Mrs. Clinton, the poll found; his strongest backers tend to be older and low-income and lack a college education.
John Kern, a 28-year-old Democrat from New Jersey who works in financial services, said he believed that Mr. Biden would be the strongest candidate to unify the party and appeal to cross-sections of voters in all regions of the country.
“Before Biden, I would have said Clinton, but I’m not really a big supporter of hers anyway,” Mr. Kern said. Referring to the killing of the American ambassador in Libya while Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state, he added, “It has nothing to do with Benghazi or all the other stuff the Republicans are trying to throw at her. But I think she’s been in Washington too long.”
But other Democrats were pulling for Mrs. Clinton. Asked their main reasons, they said that she had the right experience and that it was time to have a woman running the country.
“I think it would be good to have a woman president, and I like her principles,” said Lyndia Gadsden, 62, a Brooklyn Democrat who works as a lab technologist. “If Joe Biden wants to run, that’s fine, but I still think she’s the better candidate.”
Donald J. Trump, once a great improviser, has started relying on prepared notes when he gives speeches.
While he once rushed to leave the stage after finishing his remarks, he now lingers and works the rope line, shaking hands for several minutes.
For months, he could not resist answering any question lobbed at him by reporters. Now there is more self-restraint, at least by Mr. Trump’s standards.
Something unmistakable has happened to Mr. Trump since he announced his campaign for president in June: He has become a more disciplined candidate.
Mr. Trump’s aides did little to forecast his approach to last night’s debate, although in a departure from the lead-up to the Fox News debate last month, he diligently prepared for several days. 
It is a striking development that the candidate beloved for his brash, say-anything style would trim around the edges to conform to some of the demands of a presidential race, making him, in some ways, more of a typical politician. It suggests that as much as the Republican electorate is becoming more comfortable with the idea of Mr. Trump as its standard-bearer, he is embracing the rituals and expectations of the role, too.
“He’s given in to customs like the rope line, which for a germaphobe is probably a pretty big sacrifice,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican strategist, referring to Mr. Trump’s well-publicized dislike of being touched.
Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, said the political neophyte was “truly enjoying being a candidate for president,” adding, “I think he relishes the opportunity to interact with people directly.”
For much of the summer, the allure of Mr. Trump was his ability to be the Larry David of politicians: someone whom supporters saw as a truth-speaker, saying what they themselves thought but would not utter aloud. He has managed to maintain that appearance despite well-publicized feuds with people like Megyn Kelly of Fox News. But his image as a shoot-from-the-lip candidate obscures some of his recent strides.
He has tamed his tendency to speak endlessly. He mixes more with the crowd, ingratiating himself by handing out his trademark hats rather than darting straight back to the airport. (“Who wants one?” he asked over the weekend before lobbing a few toward attendees at his  rally in Boone, Iowa.)
And, in contrast to his earlier addresses, which seemed aimed solely at a national television audience, he is finding ways to work in local references, a hallmark of any good politician. “I am going to the football game right after this,” he told the crowd in Boone before heading to the Iowa vs. Iowa State showdown in Ames. “Who’s going to win the game?”
At a rally in Dallas on Monday, Mr. Trump likewise tailored his message. He joked that the Dallas Cowboys’ victory over the New York Giants had guaranteed him “the friendliest audience” imaginable, and cast Texas as central to his ambitions for energy policy.
“We’re in Texas,” he said. “We can do things with oil and gas that will be unbelievable.”
In a departure from his usual practice, he spared most of his Republican rivals from ridicule and made a point, in his own way, to offer kind words to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.
“If he comes out and attacks me on Wednesday night, I will take it back immediately,” he said.
But even in Boone on Saturday, the day after former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas dropped out of the presidential race, Mr. Trump put aside the fact that Mr. Perry had once called him a “cancer on conservatism” and wished his vanquished opponent good luck.
Mr. Trump has also used his speeches to pre-empt anticipated attacks, a standard politician’s tactic, criticizing the Club for Growth before it began an advertising campaign against him and doing the same with Karl Rove this week. The group Mr. Rove helped found, Crossroads GPS, has been viewed as a potential avenue for airing attack ads against Mr. Trump.
At certain points on Monday, Mr. Trump appeared so warm and conciliatory that the crowd was caught off guard. He spoke fondly of his former television employer, NBC, with whom he had a fractious divorce, praising the network for selecting Arnold Schwarzenegger as the new face of “The Celebrity Apprentice.”
“They called me up today, NBC, couldn’t be nicer,” he said. The crowd groaned at his mention of the show’s new star.
“You know,” Mr. Trump added of the network, “they finally calmed down.”
At another point, Mr. Trump promised Americans “so many victories that at some point, they’re just going to be coming out of your ears.” Quickly, he stopped himself. Last month, after the Fox debate, Mr. Trump had said that Ms. Kelly had “blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her wherever,” which critics saw as an allusion to menstruation.
“I have to be careful what I say about coming out of someone’s ears,” he said Monday, to laughs. “Have to be careful! Nose, ears, eyes. Those are the only places I’m talking about.”
Roger Stone, who parted ways with the Trump campaign this summer but remains a fan and friend of the candidate, said that Mr. Trump was realizing he could go far in this campaign and was beginning to see himself as president.
“What may have started as an exploration — not a lark, but an exploration — has blossomed into a viable candidacy,” Mr. Stone said. “He has really found his footing. He’s adaptive, and he can win.”
There are still some lapses: A speech billed as a major national security address on the eve of Wednesday’s debate was instead a discursive riff with little by way of new substance.
But Mr. Trump, in Dallas, suggested that he might be adjusting his rhetoric, tempering the apocalyptic language that characterized the start of his candidacy in favor of a more upbeat tone. He described an argument with his wife, Melania, who had been upset, according to Mr. Trump, after hearing him declare, “The American dream is dead.”
“I said, ‘No, I said the American dream is dead, but I’m going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before,’ ” Mr. Trump recalled.
Ms. Trump was unconvinced, Mr. Trump said. He turned on the television, seeking proof.
“And it’s me standing in this big crowd: ‘The American dream is dead!’ ” he said.
“I was so angry,” he said, proceeding with a modified riff for the Texas crowd: “The American dream, it’s going to be better.”
The Festival of New Trumpet Music, which folds an enormous range of original music into its embrace, was founded in 2002 by Dave Douglas, whose music tends to get sorted under jazz. Increasingly, Mr. Douglas has engaged a brain trust of fellow trumpeters to help program the event. This year’s kickoff, on Thursday, Sept. 24, at Rockwood Music Hall Stage 3, was organized by C. J. Camerieri of yMusic and Stephanie Richards of Asphalt Orchestra, and it will feature both of those style-hopping ensembles.
A concert at 8 p.m. on Friday, Sept. 25, at the DiMenna Center for Classical Music, will feature Thomas Bergeron’s reinvention of Messiaen’s “Sacred Feast” for an improvising chamber group. And a pair of sets at the Jazz Gallery on Saturday, Sept. 26 (at 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.), will feature a clutch of post-bop trumpeters corralled by Marquis Hill, who emerged as a breakout star this year. The festival runs through Sept. 29; fontmusic.org.
Wednesday night’s presidential debate is at the Reagan Presidential Library, which means that candidates are going to feel obliged to mention Ronald Reagan — a lot. In 2011, candidates running for the G.O.P. nomination gathered at the same library, in Simi Valley, Calif., for the fourth debate in that contest. The eight candidates mentioned Mr. Reagan 24 times — roughly once every five minutes over all.
Tonight is likely to be similar, but already people are pointing out the differences between this year’s leader in the polls, Donald Trump, and the man for whom the library is named. Although there are notable differences between the two candidates, there are a fair number of similarities, including some of their rhetoric. Mr. Trump may be more like Mr. Reagan than people realize.
It is true that Mr. Reagan’s style of communicating was very different from Mr. Trump’s, but the approach of their campaigns may not be as different as people may remember. Mr. Reagan did more than just focus on bringing people together to build a better America. And despite conventional wisdom that he never attacked a fellow Republican, Mr. Reagan hit Gerald Ford repeatedly and with vigor during the 1976 primary contest. Like Mr. Trump, Mr. Reagan attacked his opponents and pointed out their weaknesses.
Mr. Reagan referred to the nation’s condition in 1980 as a “human tragedy” and called his opponent’s plan a “crazy quilt” of election year promises. From time to time, he used a tag line that Mr. Trump has made his own: “Make America great again.”
Here’s an example from a stump speech Mr. Reagan gave on Sept. 1, 1980, at Liberty State Park in Jersey City:
It is easy to remember the manner and polish that defined Mr. Reagan as a communicator and forget that his campaign speeches and advertisements were often pointed and cutting.
Perhaps the best example of how style can change the impression people get from a candidate comes from Mr. Reagan’s performance in a 1984 debate in Kansas City, Mo. When Henry Trewhitt of The Baltimore Sun asked Mr. Reagan whether his age would interfere with his ability to carry out a successful second term (he was, at the time, the oldest president in history), Mr. Reagan, who was running against a much younger Walter Mondale, replied:
It’s different on a number of levels from Mr. Trump saying, “Look at that face! Would anyone vote for that face?” in referring to Carly Fiorina. But in his typical manner, Mr. Reagan poked at Mr. Mondale on a personal trait — his age — and made it seem charming, not caustic. Of course it was also funny, since Mr. Mondale was 56 in 1984.
All serious candidates attack their opponents to draw distinctions that they think will matter to voters, Mr. Trump and Mr. Reagan included. Maybe the main difference between the rhetorical styles of these two candidates is how they see themselves in their plans to make things better. Mr. Trump’s use of the slogan “Make America Great Again” clearly implies that he is the one who will make it great. For Mr. Reagan, it was a joint effort. “That we can, and so help us God that we will, make America great again,” he said.
The difference between “he” and “we” may be what makes many people remember Mr. Reagan fondly and makes some react to Mr. Trump with apprehension.
He was not on stage, but Donald J. Trump loomed large over parts of the so-called undercard debate on Wednesday when four candidates appeared at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif., and moderators asked if Mr. Trump should be exempt from Reagan’s “11th commandment” not to criticize fellow Republicans. 
Gov. Bobby Jindal of Louisiana called Mr. Trump a “narcissist who only believes in himself.” Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina criticized the party’s “leading candidate” for absorbing foreign policy from television. George E. Pataki, the former New York governor, tried to wriggle out of an earlier suggestion that he would not vote for Mr. Trump, but said Mr. Trump was “unfit” to be president. 
Eventually, Mr. Pataki expressed exasperation at the focus on Mr. Trump. “This is an important election with an enormous number of challenges facing the American people,” he said, “and the first four questions are about Donald Trump.”
The debate was still dominated by matters of policy, and thanks to a live audience and the fact that there were only four candidates on stage, there was more than enough time for each of the men to speak. And they showed some sharp differences among them, providing a contentious warm-up forum before the Big 11 debate later in the evening with the top tier of candidates.
Another lively factor was Mr. Graham, an inveterate quipster, who at one point said: “I wasn’t the best law student. By the end of this debate, it would be the most time I’ve ever spent in any library.” He proposed more bipartisan cooperation in Washington through social interactions. “That’s the first thing I’m going to do as president: We’re going to drink more,” he said to laughter.
There was much at stake for the four candidates, who had failed to make the main debate — which started a short time later on the same stage — because not one was above 1 percent in an average of polls consulted by CNN, the debate’s sponsor. To maintain their viability as the Republican race continues, they needed to win over not just voters but also, even more important, donors. The example of a candidate who did not — former Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who dropped out last week for lack of money — could not have been far from anyone’s mind. 
Between Mr. Graham and Mr. Pataki, two moderate Republicans, and Mr. Jindal and former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, two social conservatives, there were sharp disagreements over the minimum wage, immigration and Kim Davis, the Kentucky county clerk who was briefly jailed this month for refusing to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Mr. Pataki said he would have fired Ms. Davis. “We have to uphold the rule of law,” he said.
Mr. Santorum strongly disagreed, saying the Supreme Court had been “abusive” to the Constitution in overturning state bans on same-sex marriage. “We need a president and a Congress to stand up to a court when it exceeds its constitutional authority,” he said.
Mr. Pataki shot back: “My response is kind of, ‘Wow.’ You know, we’re going to have a president who defies the Supreme Court because they don’t agree?”
On immigration, Mr. Graham, who supports a path to legal status for unauthorized workers, tangled with Mr. Santorum, who does not. “What are you going to do with the 11 million?” Mr. Graham asked, referring to the number of immigrants in the country illegally. 
Mr. Santorum said he would tell “the 11 million that they have to return to their country of origin.”
Mr. Graham prodded him, asking how successful he had been when he pushed for an immigration overhaul in the Senate. 
“It went nowhere, because we had a president back then who was for more comprehensive immigration reform,” Mr. Santorum said.
“George W. Bush,” Mr. Graham said.
“That’s right,” Mr. Santorum said.
“Who won with Hispanics,” Mr. Graham added.
Mr. Jindal sought to position himself as an outsider to Washington, the reason Republican voters have made two nonpoliticians, Mr. Trump and Ben Carson, a retired surgeon, the leaders in polls. “I am tired of this surrender caucus,” Mr. Jindal said, referring to Republican leadership in Congress. “I am angrier at Republicans in D.C. than I am at the president.”
Toward the end, the debate returned, inevitably, to Mr. Trump. 
After Mr. Pataki said he would end tax breaks for Wall Street “fat cats,” he was asked if he agreed with Mr. Trump on raising taxes for hedge-fund titans.
“It’s hard for me to say I’m with Donald Trump on anything, but on this issue, I agree with him,” he said.
After the debate, the four candidates posed for pictures with the 11 candidates from the top-tier debate, the first time the full field had appeared together in the campaign.
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. — Determined to prove their mettle, several Republican presidential candidates showed new aggressiveness in lacing into Donald J. Trump on Wednesday night, seeking to elevate themselves as leaders of substance and shake up a race that Mr. Trump has dominated all summer.
While moderators at the CNN debate tried repeatedly to pit one Republican after another against Mr. Trump, the candidates fought to break out of that dynamic, with Carly Fiorina emerging as an especially tenacious combatant who provided some of the few moments where Mr. Trump looked uncomfortable.
The debate covered a broad range of subjects — immigration, the nuclear deal with Iran, same-sex marriage, federal financing for Planned Parenthood — and was more inclusive than the first debate last month, allowing each of the 11 candidates to engage through a nearly three-hour forum that tested their endurance.
Still, some of the most memorable interactions centered on loaded confrontations with Mr. Trump. Mrs. Fiorina called him “an entertainer,” and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky labeled him “sophomoric” in the opening minutes of the debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library here. Mr. Trump drew a stinging assault on his leadership abilities and character from Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin, one of several candidates who have declined in the polls as Mr. Trump has soared.
“We don’t need an apprentice in the White House — we have one right now,” Mr. Walker said, invoking the name of Mr. Trump’s former reality show. When Mr. Trump sharply criticized his record in Wisconsin, Mr. Walker hit back: “Just because he says it doesn’t make it true. The facts are the facts.”
Another struggling candidate, former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, who has been Mr. Trump’s chief target, was initially slow to take him on, but then ripped into him for suggesting that Mr. Bush would be a puppet of his major donors. He accused Mr. Trump of using his enormous wealth to act like a “special interest” by lobbying for casino gambling in Florida when Mr. Bush was governor there.
“Totally false,” said Mr. Trump, who rolled his eyes and feigned looks of shock as his opponents piled on.
“You wanted it, and you didn’t get it because I was opposed,” Mr. Bush shot back.
“More energy tonight. I like that,” Mr. Trump quipped, drawing a look of fury from Mr. Bush, whose low-key manner he has lampooned all summer.
Several candidates tried to connect with voters on a personal level. Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey spoke at length about his fears that his wife had been killed in the Sept. 11 attacks and that he might become a single parent. Senator Marco Rubio of Florida spoke about the importance of speaking Spanish in his family, and used national security questions about Russia and Syria to pledge that he had the experience to keep Americans safe. And Ben Carson, a retired neurosurgeon and a social conservative, said he loathed politics as much as many of the voters who have helped him and Mr. Trump emerge as the leading candidates in polls.
“When I entered this race, all the political pundits said, ‘It’s impossible; you can’t do it because you’re not connected with the money,’ ” Mr. Carson said. “We now have over 500,000 donations, and the money is coming in. But the pundits forgot about one thing, and that is the people. And they are really in charge.”
The attacks from Mr. Bush and Mrs. Fiorina were expected, given how harshly Mr. Trump has jabbed at them in recent weeks. But perhaps more notable was that Mr. Walker, too, in an acknowledgment that he has to make up lost ground, repeatedly took on Mr. Trump.
At times, Mr. Trump responded to attacks with gusto, belittling Mr. Paul’s appearance (“I never attacked him on his looks, and believe me, there is plenty of subject matter right there”), bashing Mr. Walker for his collapse in the polls in Iowa (“You went down the tubes”) and treating Mr. Bush — as well as his brother George W. Bush — dismissively.
“Your brother’s administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster,” Mr. Trump snapped at one point.
“You know what? As it relates to my brother, there’s one thing I know for sure: He kept us safe,” Mr. Bush said, drawing strong applause on a night when he often delivered sharp lines with an uneasy, obligatory tone — knowing he had to attack but seeming not to relish it.
Mr. Trump appeared cowed at only one moment, when a moderator noted that he had recently denigrated Mrs. Fiorina’s appearance, saying: “Look at that face! Would anybody vote for that?” (He later claimed he had been referring to her persona.) Mrs. Fiorina was asked what she thought of Mr. Trump’s persona.
“I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said,” she said pointedly.
Her riposte drew the loudest applause of the debate, and Mr. Trump waited until it died down to reply.
“I think she’s got a beautiful face, and she’s a beautiful woman,” Mr. Trump said as Mrs. Fiorina looked on stonily.
Over and over, the discussion returned to Mr. Trump, who stood center-stage, his shoulders slouched forward, hands on lectern and lips pursed. He gladly took on his rivals, but was unable to bait the moderators into a spat and seemed not to enjoy the evening as much as he had at the first debate. As the night went on, he became quieter and, in an interview with CNN immediately after the debate, complained that it had gone on “too long” and said it had to have been the longest ever held.
The debate highlighted significant policy differences among the candidates, with Gov. John Kasich of Ohio and Senator Ted Cruz of Texas tangling over the Iran accord and whether congressional Republicans should stop funding the government as part of an effort to end public financing for Planned Parenthood.
In a glimpse at the tension between the hard-right and more centrist wings of the Republican Party, Mr. Kasich mocked the idea that the deal between Iran and multiple world powers could be summarily discarded, saying Americans “operate better in a world when our allies work with us.” And he warned Republicans not to shut down the government.
Mr. Cruz gave no quarter, citing videos that show Planned Parenthood officials discussing fees for tissue from aborted fetuses as evidence of a “criminal enterprise” and denouncing Republicans for “pre-emptively surrendering to Barack Obama.”
Mr. Walker, asserting himself after a sharp fall in the polls, repeatedly interjected when he was not called on, attacking Mr. Trump and later criticizing the Washington political establishment.
Mr. Christie, who was left out of the conversation for much of the night, eventually intervened in the argument between Mr. Trump and Mrs. Fiorina, chiding them for focusing on their own careers rather than on Americans who are struggling.
“You’re both successful people, congratulations,” Mr. Christie said, raising his voice at Mrs. Fiorina and warning her not to interrupt him. “Stop this childish back and forth.”
The conversation turned even more pointed and personal when a CNN moderator noted that Mr. Trump had suggested that Mr. Bush’s views on immigration were shaped by his marriage to a Mexican-born woman.
Mr. Bush seized the moment, turning to Mr. Trump, just inches to his right, and imploring him to apologize to his wife, Columba, who was in the audience.
“No, because I said nothing wrong,” Mr. Trump said, prompting Mr. Bush to flash the tight grimace he displayed repeatedly throughout the night when Mr. Trump spoke.
As the debate neared its conclusion, the questions turned lighter and the candidates punchier. They were asked what woman they might put on the $10 bill (Rosa Parks was a favorite, and Mr. Bush picked a non-American, Margaret Thatcher). And when asked what their Secret Service code names would be, Mr. Bush, turning to Mr. Trump, said he would choose “Eveready.”
“It’s very high energy, Donald,” Mr. Bush said to laughs.
Even Mr. Trump had to concede it was a good line, holding out his hand for Mr. Bush to slap, which he did with notable energy.
The sparring reflected a calculation among several candidates that the forum offered their best opportunity yet to convince a sizable national audience that they were more credible alternatives to Mr. Trump, yet shared his passion and determination to change Washington.
A record-setting 24 million people watched the first debate on Aug. 6, and standout performances from four candidates — Mr. Trump, Mr. Carson, Mrs. Fiorina and Mr. Kasich — helped them make gains in opinion polls and draw greater news media attention in the six weeks that followed.
Support for Mr. Trump has proved particularly durable in spite of his divisive remarks; 39 percent of Republicans see him as their best chance of winning the 2016 election, according to a New York Times/CBS News poll released this week.
Wednesday’s forum, held before a few hundred well-heeled Republicans at the hilltop shrine to one of the party’s most revered presidents, had been expected to have less of a gladiatorial feel than last month’s debate, which took place in a cavernous Cleveland arena where audience cheers and catcalls seemed to energize Mr. Trump and throw off others, like Mr. Carson.
In a campaign that has been overwhelmed by a reality-show celebrity, it is perhaps fitting that these televised showdowns are becoming so consequential. In no small part because of last month’s debate, one candidate, Rick Perry, has exited the presidential race, and others have advanced or faded in the polls.
Donald J. Trump arrived at the second Republican presidential debate dominating the field but facing a critical question: Would he use the moment to move beyond attention-grabbing theatrics and present himself as a candidate many voters could envision as the party’s nominee — not to mention as president of the United States?
But as became clear within minutes, there would be no new Mr. Trump taking the stage at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library on Wednesday night. Rather than ignore prodding from his opponents — which is what a more traditional candidate who found himself ahead in almost every state and national poll might do — Mr. Trump not only went on the attack, but even focused his attention on candidates like Rand Paul who polls suggest is anything but a threat to him, and George E. Pataki, whose standing is so low he was not even on the same stage but was relegated to a debate earlier in the evening.
More than that, Mr. Trump did not use this debate to move far beyond the familiar and reliably popular lines on issues like deporting illegal immigrants that have become the stock in trade of his rallies. For nearly 30 minutes, not long after the debate began, this most colorful of candidates faded to the sidelines as his rivals debated in detail issues like Syria and how to deal with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, subjects that Mr. Trump appeared to struggle with when the questions came to him.
“I would talk to him, I would get along with him,” Mr. Trump said when pressed to explain how he would deal with Mr. Putin on Syria.
In contrast to the first debate on Aug. 6, held in a Cleveland arena filled with cheering supporters, the audience of mostly California Republicans at the Reagan Library sat silently for much of the time when Mr. Trump spoke or offered the pledges, such as to build a wall along the Mexican border, that have earned him cheers elsewhere.
They also applauded loudly when Carly Fiorina, a former California corporate executive, chastised Mr. Trump for making critical remarks about her looks recently: “I think women all over this country heard what Mr. Trump said,” she said sharply.
When Mr. Trump’s moment came, he responded only by saying, “I think she’s got a beautiful face.” 
While he offered some hints of what a Trump presidency could be like — suggesting that he would use his business acumen to help the country in its economic and foreign policy struggles — he added little to the bare policy bones of his presidential campaign to date.
By the end of the night, it was the familiar image of Mr. Trump as the jaunty brawler, and even bully, that was likely to again be the takeaway.
With his successes up till now, Mr. Trump has demonstrated that he could go far without playing by the rules that have governed past presidential contests; indeed, that is part of his appeal. And there are not many people in politics who have the self-discipline to resist the repeated goading Mr. Trump encountered from the Republicans with whom he shared the stage for almost three hours.
Mr. Trump is hardly the first candidate to run as the outsider promising wholesale change, the populist truth teller willing to take on the special interests. He may be able to use that appeal to gain the nomination in a crowded Republican field, but as he no doubt realizes, he will need to broaden his appeal to win the White House. This is not an easy threshold to clear, as other populist candidates, including Howard Dean, Patrick J. Buchanan and Ross Perot, have shown.
By any measure, Mr. Trump is in a far different, and better, position in this race than when the Republicans met for their first debate. A New York Times/CBS News poll released this week found not only that Mr. Trump was at the head of the field — reflecting other polls that have shown him in a similar position nationally, as well as in New Hampshire and Iowa — but also that an increasing number of Republicans think he would be their strongest nominee. 
Candidates in that position, as a rule, are generally advised to ignore their opponents in debates like this, rather than giving them attention, and to move forward, rather than shoot backward.
“What we used to tell Mitt in 2012 was focus on Obama,” said Eric Fehrnstrom, who served as a senior adviser to Mitt Romney, the Republican presidential nominee in 2012. “Don’t worry about answering all the criticism that you are going to hear from the Republican opponent. Try to rise above the field and train your focus on the person you think is going to be the Democratic nominee.”
Mr. Trump, he said, should do the same thing: “At some point, people are going to want to know that he is growing, that he is learning something from this campaign.”
The issue now is whether other Republicans are ready to step in if Mr. Trump’s candidacy plateaus or begins to fade. Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida who has long been viewed as the most likely establishment alternative to Mr. Trump, picked up energy as the night went on, drawing rounds of applause after Mr. Trump appeared to find fault with the record of his brother, George W. Bush.
“Your brother and your brother’s administration gave us Barack Obama, because it was such a disaster those last three months that Abraham Lincoln couldn’t have been elected,” Mr. Trump said, gazing at Mr. Bush, who stood at his side.
Jeb Bush returned Mr. Trump’s glare. “As it relates to my brother, there’s one thing I know for sure: He kept us safe,” he said. If the traditional rules of politics apply, the campaign is moving into a new phase with the arrival of fall, a time when voters pay more attention and give more serious consideration to whom they want as their nominee, and as president, adding to the debate’s potential import. For all that, after his summerlong defiance of all expectations, there is a credible argument to be made that perhaps Mr. Trump should not change what he is doing for a while. Clearly, many people like and expect the insults, the brash language, the Don Rickles nature of Mr. Trump’s candidacy. If he gives that up, will he lose the appeal that brought him here today?
It is the belief — and the hope — of many Republicans who recoil from the idea of Mr. Trump as the nominee that winning the presidency requires a level of skill that he does not have, and that his supporters, when they begin listening carefully to what he says, and to the positions he takes and is forced to defend, will reconsider their views of him, or just stay home.
“Trump may be flying high now,” said Scott Reed, a Republican consultant. “But time is our friend.”
Still, Republicans have been saying that for the better part of three months now. As the campaign enters a new and more intense phase, the question is whether those hopes will be realized, or whether Mr. Trump will manage to outsmart his detractors yet again.
It was a debate that worked almost in spite of itself.
As the hours dragged on, the issues were indeed hashed out: whether a Republican president should immediately tear up the Iran deal or wait and see; whether the federal government should be shut down in the service of defunding Planned Parenthood; whether a wall along the Mexican border is a feasible plan or empty bluster.
But that substance had to muscle its way through the show business, by which I mean Donald Trump’s attempt to turn everything into an adolescent popularity contest and CNN’s willingness to reward that by filtering the entire evening through the prism of the Republican field’s proven ratings magnet: Trump, Trump, Trump.
What did Trump think of something mean that someone else on the stage had said about him? What did someone else think about something nasty that Trump had said about him or her?
Trump had insulted Jeb Bush’s wife: Discuss! Trump had insulted Carly Fiorina’s business career: Respond!
So it went, somewhat tediously and surreally, for many stretches of the debate on Wednesday night and especially for the first half-hour, during which Rand Paul took the precise measure of — and raised the correct question about — the egomaniacal front-runner.
“Do we want someone with that kind of character, that kind of careless language, to be negotiating with Putin?” Paul asked.
“I think really there’s a sophomoric quality that is entertaining about Mr. Trump, but I am worried,” he added, and I nodded so vigorously at the “worried” part that I’m going to need balm and a neck brace tomorrow.
Paul went on to single out Trump’s “visceral response to attack people on their appearance — short, tall, fat, ugly. My goodness, that happened in junior high. Are we not way above that?”
No, we aren’t. Or at least Trump isn’t. And “junior high” is too easy on him, too kind. Trump comes from, and belongs in, the sandbox, as he demonstrated the second that Paul paused and Trump fired back: “I never attacked him on his look, and believe me, there’s plenty of subject matter right there.”
How lovely. And how adult. And less than an hour later, Fiorina had to stand there and try not to squirm as she was asked to react to Trump’s recent comments about her in a Rolling Stone interview: “Look at that face. Would anyone vote for that?”
Fiorina held her head, including her face, high. “I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said,” she stated tightly, and with more dignity than Trump or the situation deserved.
Trump rushed in: “I think she’s got a beautiful face and I think she’s a beautiful woman.” Watch out, Carly. Next comes an invitation for a private ride in his Trump-i-copter.
I mentioned my nodding, but my real injuries came from shaking my head, over and over, because I couldn’t quite believe the Trump-centric nature of it all. I’m still mystified that he’s done this well in the polls for this long.
I know that Americans have lost faith in institutions — understandably. I know that Americans are turned off by politics as usual — justly.
But have we sunk to a point where we’re prepared to reach for someone so careless with his insinuations, so merrily and irresponsibly ignorant, that he used some of his precious time on Wednesday night to fan irrational, repudiated fears about a link between vaccines and autism?
Are we buoyed by a bully who calls anyone who disagrees with him a “loser,” promises vaguely that his presidency will be “unbelievable” (his favorite adjective, and an unintentionally telling one), and presents little besides his tumescent ego and stagey rage?
The CNN anchor Jake Tapper, who was the debate’s moderator, pressed hard to get Trump to say, with even a scintilla of specificity, why he believes that he’d be more effective in dealing with Vladimir Putin than Obama has been.
And all that Trump could muster was: “I would get along with him.”
How? Why? Not a single detail. But Trump doesn’t do details. He just crows that he will know the most, be the best and win. He’s a broken record of grandiose, self-infatuated music.
The most satisfying, encouraging moments of the debate were those when other candidates tried to point that out directly or indirectly. Chris Christie did so several times. During his opening remarks, he asked the camera to move from him to the audience, saying that the election isn’t really about the candidates, who soak up the spotlight, but the people, who deal with the consequences.
He returned to that idea after Trump and Fiorina wrangled over her past performance as the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, an exchange that followed much tussling over Trump’s business bona fides.
“While I’m as entertained as anyone by this personal back-and-forth about the history of Donald and Carly’s career, for the 55-year-old construction worker out in that audience tonight who doesn’t have a job, who can’t fund his child’s education, I’ve got to tell you the truth — they could care less about your careers,” Christie said to Trump and Fiorina.
“You’re both successful people,” he continued. “Congratulations.” But then he pleaded that there be more discussion of issues and an end to “this childish back-and-forth between the two of you.”
Mike Huckabee built on that, bemoaning “a lot of back-and-forth about ‘I’m the only one who has done this, the only one who has done that, I’ve done great things.’ We’ve all done great things or we wouldn’t be on this stage.”
During the second half of the debate in particular, the conversation moved far enough away from Trump for all of the candidates to strut their stuff, for whatever that stuff was worth.
But because there were 11 of them, those struts were so brief and sporadic that I don’t think anyone’s fortunes will be significantly changed.
Marco Rubio showed great confidence about foreign affairs. Fiorina’s crispness came through. John Kasich seemed to vanish for long chunks but, when present, managed to be both avuncular and authoritative: an effective, appealing combination.
Cruz predictably won the awards for Most Strident and Most Smarmy, talking directly to the camera rather than whoever had asked him a question. Carson was the anti-Trump, as docile as Trump was domineering, and he brilliantly sought to re-educate Trump on vaccines.
Did Bush find some spine and spark? Yes, but he seemed to fumble for it. He picked a fight with Trump about casinos in Florida. He spoke succinctly about his brother’s administration, no longer pantomiming a deer in headlights. He made a marijuana joke and then another joke, about his energy level, saying that he’d want his Secret Service nickname to be “Eveready.” Like the battery.
But there remains something wan about him: In a season of such garish colors, he always looks a little pale.
He’s not enough of a clown, and Trump has done his best to turn this into a circus, erasing the blurry line between entertainment and politics and beckoning commentators and networks toward uncharted summits of breathlessness.
“It is electric,” Anderson Cooper said to Wolf Blitzer in the hours before the debate began, describing the atmosphere.
“It doesn’t get much bigger than this,” Blitzer said to Cooper, and he repeatedly interrupted the pundits around him to provide updates on whether Trump had been spotted yet at the Reagan library, where the debate was held.
“Donald Trump, we’re told, is arriving!” Blitzer trumpeted at one point, minutes later adding: “Hold on! Hold on! . . . He’s walking in right now.” The camera documented it, step after step.
Were we supposed to get goose bumps? I just felt queasy.
IN 2006, the television comedy “The Office” aired an episode in which one of the characters, Dwight Schrute, nervously faces the prospect of delivering a speech after winning the title of top salesman of the year for his company, Dunder Mifflin. As a prank, his co-worker preps him for his moment by cribbing a speech from a dictator, coaching him to deliver it by pounding the lectern and waving his arms wildly. Dwight does it, and the audience gives a standing ovation to a manic tirade.
Watching a cartoonish TV character deliver authoritarian lines with no principles, just audacity, was hilarious back then, but that was before we saw it happening before our eyes in the race for the United States presidency.
Donald J. Trump stands astride the polls in the Republican presidential race, beating all comers in virtually every demographic of the primary electorate. Most illogical is his support from evangelicals and other social conservatives. To back Mr. Trump, these voters must repudiate everything they believe.
Ben Carson recently contrasted his own faith in God with Mr. Trump’s theatrical egocentrism. “By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches and honor and life, and that’s a very big part of who I am,” he said, citing a Bible verse. “I don’t get that impression with him.” Mr. Trump hit back, suggesting that Mr. Carson was faking his own faith: “So I don’t know about Ben Carson’s faith, and all of a sudden he becomes this great religious figure. I don’t think he’s a great religious figure.” Mr. Carson quickly backed off from his comments, but the questions are not so easily dismissed.
There’s no religious test for office, and there shouldn’t be. My Baptist ancestors were willing to make alliances with the heretical Thomas Jefferson because he believed in religious liberty. It didn’t matter that they never would have let him teach Sunday school.
We should not demand to see the long-form certificate for Mr. Trump’s second birth. We should, though, ask about his personal character and fitness for office. His personal morality is clear, not because of tabloid exposés but because of his own boasts. His attitude toward women is that of a Bronze Age warlord. He tells us in one of his books that he revels in the fact that he gets to sleep with some of the “top women in the world.” He has divorced two wives (so far) for other women.
This should not be surprising to social conservatives in a culture shaped by pornographic understandings of the meaning of love and sex. What is surprising is that some self-identified evangelicals are telling pollsters they’re for Mr. Trump. Worse, some social conservative leaders are praising Mr. Trump for “telling it like it is.”
In the 1990s, some of these social conservatives argued that “If Bill Clinton’s wife can’t trust him, neither can we.” If character matters, character matters. Today’s evangelicals should ask, “Whatever happened to our commitment to ‘traditional family values’?”
Mr. Trump tells us “nothing beats the Bible,” and once said to an audience that he knows how Billy Graham feels. He says of evangelicals: “I love them. They love me.” And yet, he regularly ridicules evangelicals, with almost as much glee as he does Hispanics. This goes beyond his trivialization of communion with his recent comments about “my little cracker” as a way to ask forgiveness. In recent years, he has suggested that evangelical missionaries not be treated in the United States for Ebola, since they chose to go overseas in the first place.
Still, the problem is not just Mr. Trump’s personal lack of a moral compass. He is, after all, a casino and real estate mogul who has built his career off gambling, a moral vice and an economic swindle that oppresses the poorest and most desperate. When Mr. Trump’s casinos fail, he can simply file bankruptcy and move on. The lives and families destroyed by the casino industry cannot move on so easily.
He’s defended, up until very recent years, abortion, and speaks even now of the “good things” done by Planned Parenthood. In a time when racial tensions run high across the country, Mr. Trump incites division, with slurs against Hispanic immigrants and with protectionist jargon that preys on turning economic insecurity into ugly “us versus them” identity politics. When evangelicals should be leading the way on racial reconciliation, as the Bible tells us to, are we really ready to trade unity with our black and brown brothers and sisters for this angry politician?
Jesus taught his disciples to “count the cost” of following him. We should know, he said, where we’re going and what we’re leaving behind. We should also count the cost of following Donald Trump. To do so would mean that we’ve decided to join the other side of the culture war, that image and celebrity and money and power and social Darwinist “winning” trump the conservation of moral principles and a just society. We ought to listen, to get past the boisterous confidence and the television lights and the waving arms and hear just whose speech we’re applauding.
Give Donald Trump credit for this: The Republican presidential candidate has done more to put a stake in the heart of the carried-interest tax loophole in the last month than the Obama administration has in the last six and a half years.
That’s not for want of trying by the White House. President Obama has proposed closing the loophole in his budget proposals. He has tried to get rid of it as part of bargains on tax reform and budgets. There have also been efforts to kill it in Congress.
Yet it lives on, lining the pockets of billionaire financiers and hedge fund and private equity managers by giving them preferential tax treatment on a large portion of their compensation.
It’s not just Republicans who have kept it alive. Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York, has voted to change the law. But he has long opposed any overhaul that singled out his wealthy Wall Street constituents and donors when other types of investment partnerships — oil and gas, real estate, timber — also benefit from the lower “carried interest” tax.
Then came the Trump phenomenon. Last month, he said he would close the carried-interest loophole. “The hedge fund guys didn’t build this country,” Mr. Trump told John Dickerson on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” “These are guys that shift paper around and they get lucky.” He continued: “The hedge fund guys are getting away with murder.”
And at Wednesday night’s debate, Mr. Trump raised the issue again. “The hedge fund guys won’t like me as much as they like me right now — I know ’em all,” he said. “But they’ll pay more.”
Earlier Wednesday, in a speech to the Business Roundtable, President Obama again called for carried interest to be taxed as ordinary income rather than at the lower capital gains rate. He put some teeth into the proposal by linking it to a resolution of the looming budget negotiations and threat of a government shutdown.
Even Mr. Schumer threw his support behind this latest idea on Wednesday, saying that treating carried interest like ordinary income “would find a wealth of bipartisan support” and could pave the way to a budget deal this fall.
Other presidential candidates have piled on. All the Democratic candidates are on record against it. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont introduced legislation in July to get rid of preferential “carried interest” tax treatment, and has argued that President Obama has the authority to unilaterally abolish it. Last week Jeb Bush, no populist maverick, jumped on the anti-carried-interest bandwagon.
With the emergence of what seems a rare bipartisan consensus, the arguments against closing the loophole — both political and economic — seem to be crumbling.
“A year ago no one was talking about this,” said Victor Fleischer, a law professor at the University of San Diego, who has been crusading against the carried-interest loophole since 2004 and told me it was the issue that had defined his career. “It’s fascinating that there’s been this resurgence of interest.” (Professor Fleischer is a contributor to The New York Times’s DealBook.)
Eric Toder, co-director of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center in Washington, said that Mr. Trump really put carried interest back in play. “It’s a good populist talking point,” Mr. Toder said.
Carried interest is the percentage of investment gains that hedge fund managers, private equity executives and venture capital partners take as compensation, usually in addition to a management fee. (“Two and twenty” has become Wall Street jargon for these funds’ typical compensation scheme, meaning 2 percent of assets under management and 20 percent of any gains.) Because the “carry” is tied to performance, it is treated like an investment and subjected to the lower capital gains tax rate, rather than as ordinary income, even though most managers don’t put any of their own money at risk.
The loophole taps into the public’s insecurities over the fairness of the tax system, and whether it unfairly benefits the wealthiest Americans.
“It symbolizes how the 1 percent, or the one-tenth of 1 percent, can exploit the tax and legal system to their own benefit in ways ordinary people cannot,” Professor Fleischer said. “If you’re a teacher or a firefighter or a journalist, you can’t transform your labor income into capital gains.”
The issue has especially resonated with Mr. Trump’s supporters, because it demonstrates that he isn’t beholden to big-money interests because he can finance his campaign with his own money.
And for other Republican candidates, there’s the specter of the Mitt Romney campaign. Exactly how much Mr. Romney benefited from the carried-interest loophole could not be determined, since he refused to release his tax returns before 2010. But as a former Bain Capital partner, he received substantial carried interest — 31 percent of his 2010 and 2011 income, The Boston Globe reported. President Obama pilloried Mr. Romney over the issue during the 2012 campaign.
While distinguishing between ordinary income and capital gains can be complex, “this one looks especially ugly to people,” said Mr. Toder, who favors repealing the loophole. “Look at salesmen who work on commission. Their compensation is at risk, too, but they don’t get to treat their income like a capital gain.”
And the people who benefit are among the richest in the country. Even though most hedge funds haven’t had a very good year, last year the top 25 hedge fund managers earned a combined $11.62 billion, according to Institutional Investor, or an average of $467 million each. The latest data from the Internal Revenue Service for the top 400 earners, a list studded with hedge fund and private equity managers, show that in 2012 they paid the second-lowest average federal tax rate since the data has been collected, a mere 16.7 percent, in large part because much of their income (an average of 57 percent) is taxed at the lower capital gains rate.
That’s one reason the loophole has survived as long as it has. “The group that benefits may be small, but they’re rich and they give a lot of money” to politicians, said Daniel Shaviro, a specialist in tax policy and law professor at New York University School of Law. “To everyone else it can seem a vague talking point. It’s classic interest group politics.”
Estimates of how much revenue closing the loophole would raise vary, in part because it’s hard to know if hedge fund managers and others who benefit would alter their behavior by holding assets longer, in that way deferring taxes. The Treasury estimates it would raise $18 billion over 10 years; Professor Fleischer contends it would be 10 times that much, $180 billion.
In Washington, carried interest has become a bargaining chip in contentious negotiations between the White House and Congress. Most politicians would give it up in the right circumstances, and it has always been on the short list of what should be repealed if there were a bipartisan deal.
“What’s frustrating is that carried interest is always held hostage to negotiations over tax reform,” said Professor Fleischer. “And tax reform is always coming tomorrow.”
In May, Representative Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, blocked an effort to link the carried-interest issue to corporate tax reform, arguing it was an individual tax issue and should be negotiated in that context, perhaps in 2017. But many Republicans have indicated they are not against repealing the loophole, as long as they get something from Democrats in return. (A spokesman for Mr. Ryan said he was not available for comment.)
Republican opposition to reform may be harder to sustain now that Mr. Trump and Mr. Bush have gone rogue on the carried-interest issue while also taking populist stances on other economic issues.
“If closing the carried-interest loophole, ending subsidies for oil and gas, and tackling inversions are good enough for Donald Trump and Jeb Bush, it ought to be good enough for Republicans in Congress,” Mr. Schumer said this week.
Although the political stars seem to be aligning in their favor at last, opponents of the carried-interest tax break aren’t declaring premature victory.
“I’m glad it’s on people’s radar,” Professor Fleischer said. “But I’ve learned not to bet on it.” After 11 years fighting the issue, he said, “I’m wiser than I was as a young pup.”
MILAN — THE similarities between Donald Trump and Silvio Berlusconi are striking: Both are loud, vain, cheeky businessmen, amateur politicians and professional womanizers. Both have a troubled relation with their egos and their hair. Both think God is their publicist, and twist religion to suit their own ends.
There is a difference, though. Mr. Berlusconi was the longest-serving Italian head of government since World War II (not much came out of it, apart from a lasting friendship with Vladimir Putin). Mr. Trump hasn’t gotten that far.
For the sake of the American people and the free world, I hope he won’t. Still, as an Italian citizen who has experienced a demagogue in chief and survived, I feel I should help the American people come to grips with Candidate Trump, in order to prevent him from becoming President Trump.
First, for the skeptical, don’t underestimate the man. Why is a regular guy attracted to a billionaire candidate? It’s simple. Because he can “play to people’s fantasies,” as Mr. Trump puts it. The man knows his television, loves money, hates rules, tells jokes, uses bad language and is convivial to a fault. He may not be like us, but he makes sure there’s something about him that different people can relate to, personally.
As both Mr. Trump and Mr. Berlusconi know, once you have the people on the hook, you can sell them anything, and they’ll forgive you for everything. His appalling remarks about women and foreign countries? A sign of authenticity, say his admirers.
To dismiss Mr. Trump as a joke, as many Italians did with Mr. Berlusconi early on, and many Americans continue to do with Mr. Trump, would be a mistake. To take him seriously is also wrong. So use your sense of humor. Don’t take umbrage at his every offensive comment; his supporters don’t care, and the added chatter only helps him.
Next, don’t obsess over him. The American news and social media seem hypnotized by Mr. Trump. That’s not surprising. He is unusual, and heaven knows Western countries need some spice in the democratic process.
But to obsess over him is exactly what the man wants. “You see?” he can say. “They all gang up on me, those establishment types!” Ross Perot took advantage of the media’s love for the odd and novel in 1992; today, thanks to the Internet, it’s easier to spread the word.
Soon Mr. Trump’s act will become repetitive, so just speed up the process. Make him boring. Force him to be specific. For now, he can ignore questions about how, exactly, he would deport the estimated 11 million immigrants living in America without legal papers. Don’t stop asking. Eventually people will see through his charade. It might not seem that way now, but trust me — it worked with Mr. Berlusconi, once we figured out how to do it.
Third, don’t forget his miscues and misrepresentations. Right now Americans are drawn to Mr. Trump’s pragmatism, both in his life and his politics. But that won’t last. Americans also don’t like being lied to, and as the campaign season lengthens, there will be a lot of opportunities to point out instances of what I’ll delicately call “tactical amnesia” on Mr. Trump’s part. Candidates have lost for these sorts of mistakes. Don’t let Mr. Trump get away with it. We gave Mr. Berlusconi a lot of leeway in that department, and he took all of it.
Another similarity between Mr. Trump and Mr. Berlusconi is that they both bring to politics a flair for seduction that served them well in their previous careers in construction, television and entertainment (and elsewhere, or so it’s said). They know their message ought to be reassuring and easily digestible. Both are convinced that, in an era obsessed with appearances, image is key.
So, especially for those on the fence about supporting Mr. Trump (according to polls, a surprisingly large number of Americans): Don’t buy. Behave as you would with a chatty car salesman. Ask lots of questions, and expect proper answers. Open the trunk, check the brakes. Just don’t ask for a test drive — Mr. Trump may lock the door, speed away and drive you into the next wall.
Finally, don’t dig yourself into a hole. Margaret Thatcher’s classic acronym, TINA — There Is No Alternative — says it all about the attitude of many voters. Before choosing what they think is right, they consider what they believe to be possible. Mr. Berlusconi lasted as long as he did for lack of alternatives; Mr. Trump is banking on the creation of a self-fulfilling narrative, that even if he is not the best candidate, he is the only viable candidate.
But of course, that’s true only if the public and the media let it be true — the Republicans have 16 hats in the ring, and several of them, from across the right-wing spectrum, offer a saner option for the presidency than Mr. Trump. All it takes is the establishment’s rallying behind one of them, but they have to do it soon.
While Mr. Trump might be new to politics, Trumpism — which is to say the offensive masking themselves as “honest,” the unprepared masking themselves as “fresh” — is an ancient story. “People take pleasure in giving power to the indecent,” wrote Seneca, 2,000 years ago. But they pay for this, sooner or later. And with Mr. Trump, it may be sooner.
“I wrote ‘The Art of the Deal,’ ” said Donald Trump, introducing himself at the beginning of Wednesday’s Republican presidential debate, before moving on to his next qualification for the nation’s highest elected office. “I say, not in a braggadocious way, I’ve made billions and billions of dollars dealing with people all over the world.”
On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump frequently calls “The Art of the Deal,” published in 1987, his second-favorite book in the world after the Bible. He has repeatedly said it’s the best-selling business book of all time, a claim that isn’t true but might be an example of what he terms “truthful hyperbole” on Page 58 of “The Art of the Deal.” In July, he said the United States made a bad deal with Iran because our negotiators failed to read his book.
I read the book this week, with an eye toward what it says about the government, since the next deal Mr. Trump wants to do involves running it. What shone through is a view of government that is more critical on waste and incompetence than you would typically see from the left, but that lacks the leave-us-alone edge of the right.
“The Art of the Deal” is not a free-market book.
This isn’t surprising given the exact nature of Mr. Trump’s business background. It’s hard to make a living constructing large buildings in New York if you can’t stomach public involvement in private enterprise. The government was often a valued partner in the deals of “The Art of the Deal” — providing zoning variances, offering generous tax abatements and in one case buying a piece of land in which Mr. Trump had an interest in order to build a convention center. And in the book, Mr. Trump repeatedly showed off his superior skill in government relations — as when he obtained an Atlantic City casino license that even Hilton Hotels couldn’t get.
“There is no real estate without government,” says Julia Vitullo-Martin, a senior fellow at the Regional Plan Association, an urban planning research organization in New York. “Donald Trump and his dad built their fortunes on government.”
Fred Trump, Donald’s father, made his money building modest apartments for lower- and middle-income people in Brooklyn and Queens with subsidized loans from the Federal Housing Administration. But, as the younger Mr. Trump wrote in “The Art of the Deal,” nobody was doing that by the 1980s because “it’s not profitable and government subsidies have been eliminated.” So the younger Mr. Trump shifted toward higher-profile projects in Manhattan, which also depended on government assistance in the form of tax abatements.
His earliest major construction deal in Manhattan was the redevelopment of the Commodore Hotel near Grand Central Terminal, now the glass-covered Grand Hyatt. Mr. Trump sought and won a 40-year property tax abatement (one so long it is still in place today) over the objections of other hotel operators. Before that, he helped persuade the city to build the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on a former Penn Central rail yard on the Far West Side; Trump earned an $833,000 fee when the city bought the land, on which he held a purchase option.
A lot of conservatives have criticized public spending on convention centers as a subsidy to the hotel industry, but Mr. Trump called the publicly funded convention center project “critical to reviving the city’s image and, ultimately, to putting its economy back on track.”
When seeking tax abatements and zoning variances for his private projects, Mr. Trump emphasized how great his developments would be for the city. The tax breaks for the Grand Hyatt, he said, were the only way to stop the existing building from becoming a closed, blighted eyesore. His planned Television City development (a now scrapped proposal to bring NBC to a site on the Hudson River in the West 60s) would bring “business worth at least $500 million a year from new residents.”
Sometimes public officials bought these arguments and sometimes they didn’t. But nowhere in the book is there a contention that he shouldn’t have to make them. Never does he say that it’s none of the government’s business how he does business.
This is more evidence for what some conservatives have been shouting with increasing alarm: Donald Trump is not one of us, does not share a gut-level suspicion of government, is not a true believer in free enterprise. Mr. Trump is an enthusiast of business, but as conservative critics of “crony capitalism” emphasize, being pro-business is not the same as being pro-market.
That said, while “The Art of the Deal” is not antigovernment in general, it does contain a lot of complaints about specific actions of government. For example, he disliked Ronald Reagan’s 1986 tax reform, which abolished various tax deductions related to real estate. This move, he wrote, “will be a disaster for the country, since it eliminates the incentives to invest and build — particularly in secondary locations, where no building will occur unless there are incentives.” That is, while Mr. Trump is running on a platform of tax simplification today, he was against it 30 years ago.
Parts of the book presage Mr. Trump’s recent rants about “stupid” politicians. Mayor Ed Koch, he wrote, “has achieved something quite miraculous. He’s presided over an administration that is both pervasively corrupt and totally incompetent.” One chapter is devoted to an almost gleeful description of how the construction of an ice rink in Central Park was botched — they tried to build it on a slope, can you believe that? — and then Mr. Trump took over and got done in six months what the city had failed to do inside six years.
But these are not so much arguments against government as against stupidity. Cost overruns on the Javits Center could have been avoided, Mr. Trump wrote, if the city had awarded the construction contract to him as he had suggested. Not surprisingly, this year, he has talked about the need for infrastructure spending with the zeal of many Democrats — while insisting he can deliver needed upgrades much more cheaply than the government would.
Twenty-nine years is a long time, and “The Art of the Deal,” which he wrote with Tony Schwartz, who is now a contributor to The New York Times, will not necessarily be Mr. Trump’s blueprint for governing. But in his campaign speeches, Mr. Trump has often echoed the meddlesome approach to business he learned from New York City officials. As president, Mr. Trump likes to say, he’d call up the chief of Ford with a threat: Move your factories back from Mexico or I’ll slap a huge tax on your imports.
This is antithetical to the conservative approach that says markets, not the government, should determine the allocation of business capital. But it is fully in line with the ideas in “The Art of the Deal.”
At first, the capitalists’ lobby dismissed the billionaire Donald J. Trump’s call to end the so-called carried-interest tax break for “hedge fund guys” as an eccentric idea from one of their own.
Then Jeb Bush, Mr. Trump’s rival for the Republican nomination, embraced it. Some of Wall Street’s heaviest hitters approved. And predictably, Democrats led by President Obama and the party’s presidential candidates piled on, because the tax-the-rich idea had been theirs to begin with.
But far from defeated, the proponents of the carried-interest tax break are rallying to its defense — and counting on the Republican-controlled Congress to have their back.
“It’s been a while since people on the right have had to think about this,” said Ryan Ellis, tax policy director for Americans for Tax Reform, the group founded by Grover Norquist, the self-appointed arbiter of Republicans’ anti-tax purity. Recently, both men wrote columns supporting lower taxes for carried interest: Mr. Ellis in Forbes magazine (its Trump-like lead paragraph: “Taxing carried interest as ordinary income is a really dumb idea”) and Mr. Norquist in USA Today.
“Trump started it,” Mr. Ellis said in an interview. “And then what really got it going was the unfortunate decision of the Bush campaign to include it” in Mr. Bush’s new tax plan. “Then it wasn’t just a kooky Trump idea.”
Two lobbyists for the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, the industry trade group, have been busy trying to inform members of Congress about the economic benefits of private equity firms’ investments, said James Maloney, a spokesman for the group. When Mr. Bush came out in favor of eliminating the carried-interest loophole, the council issued a warning that such a change could spell the end of “decades of America’s commitment to fostering entrepreneurial risk-taking.”
“Our concern is that there is a lot of misinformation out there,” Mr. Maloney said.
For Mr. Trump, the real estate mogul, and Mr. Bush, who briefly had a career in private equity, their opposition to the tax break for a niche of the wealthiest Americans is perhaps a politically advantageous position in this populist moment, despite its departure from Republican orthodoxy. Many voters are frustrated by years of stagnant wages and growing income inequality, which has been made worse by the tax code’s preferences.
For Mr. Bush, in particular, media attention to the populism of his attack on the carried-interest break obscured an important fact: His proposal to eliminate the break is one provision in a broader tax plan that, over all, would cut individual and corporate taxes so deeply that it was uncertain whether people involved in private equity would pay more taxes or less.
At issue with carried interest is the tax code’s longstanding favorable treatment of the generous compensation given to hedge fund managers, private equity partners and venture capitalists as their share of the gains on money they invest for others — institutions as well as wealthy partnerships. That compensation, typically 20 percent of any investment gains (with an additional fee of 2 percent of the sum under management), is taxed as capital gains rather than ordinary income. That means a tax of 23.8 percent — instead of the up to 39.6 percent for ordinary income — even though these money managers generally have not put their own money in play. The traditional justification for low capital gains taxes is to reward risk-taking investors.
Congressional Democrats have tried in the past to make that compensation taxable at the higher “ordinary income” rates paid by wage earners; Mr. Obama has also proposed as much in his budgets. The carried-interest break was an issue in the 2012 election, given its benefit to the Republican nominee Mitt Romney, a founder of the private equity firm Bain Capital. Mr. Romney’s campaign, on the defensive, suggested that as president he would end the break as part of a rewrite of the tax code.
Postelection, the issue faded again. Then in late August, Mr. Trump, on the CBS Sunday morning program “Face the Nation,” said, “The hedge fund guys are getting away with murder,” tax-wise. Defying Republican political gravity, after his heresy of proposing a tax increase, Mr. Trump’s popularity among Republicans rose.
Two weeks later on the same program, Mr. Trump doubled down. He claimed the hedge fund industry “totally controlled” both Mr. Bush and the Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton (who opposes the carried-interest break), and added that, under him, hedge fund managers are “going to be paying up.”
With their counterattack gearing up this week, carried-interest defenders were resting easier. On Wednesday, Mr. Ellis said that his intelligence gathering suggested that Mr. Trump’s tax proposal would not be as troublesome as the candidate’s rhetoric suggested. Mr. Ellis also predicted that, given Democrats’ rush to join Mr. Trump’s opposition to the tax break, “we’ve seen the last Republican presidential campaign that’s for ending it.”
But hours later, remarks at the Republican presidential debate on CNN suggested that Mr. Ellis’s information was faulty. Before a vast television audience, Mr. Trump said that when he released a comprehensive tax-overhaul plan in two weeks, “the hedge fund guys won’t like me as much as they like me right now.
“I know people that are making a tremendous amount of money and paying virtually no tax. And I think it’s unfair.”
Also contrary to Mr. Ellis’s prediction, George Pataki, former governor of New York, joined Mr. Trump’s side. “I would not give a special tax break to the Wall Street fat cats,” Mr. Pataki said, adding, “It’s hard for me to say I’m with Donald Trump on anything, but on this issue, I agree with him.”
Disagreeing with Mr. Trump were the Republican presidential candidates Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, who said he opposed “changing the incentives for investment and risk-taking,” and Ben Carson, who suggested Mr. Trump’s proposal smacked of socialism.
The same day as the debate, Mr. Obama approvingly cited the opposition of Mr. Trump and Mr. Bush to the carried-interest loophole in his remarks to an audience of corporate executives at a Business Roundtable meeting. “Keeping this tax loophole, which leads to folks who are doing very well paying lower rates than their secretaries, is not in any demonstrable way improving our economy,” he said, echoing a theme of the billionaire Warren E. Buffett.
On Thursday, Senate Democrats including Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, once a behind-the-scenes protector of the tax break, and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts called on Republicans to support ending it as part of a budget compromise that would allow caps on military and domestic spending to be lifted.
Mr. Ellis said the real goal of Democrats was to end tax breaks for capital gains altogether. “This is the tip of the spear, the camel’s nose under the tent, whatever metaphor you want to use,” he said. “So that’s a huge problem for conservatives,” many of whom want no taxes on investors’ capital gains.
Such defenders of the break, however, could take heart that the Republican chairmen of Congress’s tax-writing committees have no intention of taking up carried interest anytime soon.
“This is an issue that should be considered only in the context of comprehensive tax reform, and until then, nothing is ruled in or out,” said Brendan Buck, spokesman for Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin at the House Ways and Means Committee.
Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, is also holding out for a broad overhaul of the tax code that would end myriad tax breaks so ordinary income tax rates could be lowered. Doing that, he said, “would be a simpler and more effective way to alleviate concerns that some might have.”
Donald J. Trump is not often criticized for remaining silent, but on Friday, other presidential candidates rebuked him for not correcting an apparent supporter who said Barack Obama was a Muslim who was not born in America.
At a town hall event held on Thursday evening in Rochester, N.H., Mr. Trump took the man’s question, which began with the statement: “We have a problem in this country. It’s called Muslims.”
The audience member continued, “We know our current president is one.” And as Mr. Trump responded, perhaps reflexively, “Right,” the man added, “You know he’s not even an American.”
Mr. Trump, in a statement released late Thursday through a spokeswoman, defended his decision not to correct the man. “The media wants to make this issue about Obama,” Mr. Trump said in the statement. “The bigger issue is that Obama is waging a war against Christians in this country. Christians need support in this country. Their religious liberty is at stake.”
But Mr. Trump’s response contrasted starkly to a similar question posed to John McCain when the Republican senator from Arizona was running for president in 2008.
“I have read about him,” a woman at a campaign rally said, “he’s an Arab.”
Mr. McCain stopped the woman and shook his head, saying the president was a “decent family man citizen that I just happen to have disagreements with.”
Late Thursday, Hillary Rodham Clinton, the highest-profile Democratic candidate, spoke out in defense of the president and criticized Mr. Trump’s behavior.
“Donald Trump not denouncing false statements about POTUS & hateful rhetoric about Muslims is disturbing, & just plain wrong,” she wrote on Twitter, adding, “Cut it out.”
Many of Mr. Trump’s Republican competitors stayed quiet about the remarks on Friday, but Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey appeared on the “Today” show to say he would have responded differently.
“I would just tell you that if somebody at one of my town hall meetings said something like that, I would correct them and say, now, the president’s a Christian and he was born in this country,” Mr. Christie said to the program’s host, Matt Lauer. “Those two things are self evident.”
For years, Mr. Trump has led the charge to cast doubt on the president’s citizenship, and has credited himself with forcing the president’s decision to publicly release his birth certificate in 2011.
Even after Mr. Obama released the document, Mr. Trump continued to doubt the certificate’s authenticity.
Mr. Christie said that Mr. Trump’s reaction to the anger around the episode in New Hampshire will be a test for his campaign.
“He’s got to decide how serious a candidate he wants to be,” Mr. Christie said, “and how he handles different problems like this are going to determine that in the eyes of the American people.”
This article was initially published as a letter to subscribers of The Upshot’s newsletter. You can sign up for the email here to get this and all of the best of The Upshot.
Trump, Trump, Trump. You can be forgiven if it seems that’s about all you hear these days. We feel it, too.
Which may be why we found such delight in the Paint With Donald Trump site. The head of Mr. Trump is your paintbrush — you get a choice of eight Donald heads — and the rest is up to you.
To see an animated version of the Paint With Trump we commissioned above, go here.
Paint something with it and send us the URL of your creations at upshot@nytimes.com, along with a brief caption describing what you were seeking to achieve. We’ll share a gallery of our favorites next week.
Our other favorite things on the web this week include a Wall Street Journal graphic tied to its coverage of the United States Open. It puts you in the position of a tennis line judge. You decide what’s in or out. It’s harder than you’d think.
Technological singularity is this idea, almost a religion out in Silicon Valley, that computing power will reach a point where machines will be able to create ever more powerful and intelligent machines at an accelerating pace. Jim Pethokoukis, a columnist and blogger at the American Enterprise Institute, found an article by two academics who apply the concept to productivity. They say “rapid growth in computation and artificial intelligence will cross some boundary or singularity after which economic growth will accelerate sharply as an ever-accelerating pace of improvements cascade through the economy.” Don’t get too excited (or despondent). They conclude the event is not near.
To wrap it up, we turn to Nate Silver over at FiveThirtyEight, who attempts to quantify and chart the bad news reported about Hillary Rodham Clinton. He discovers that she is stuck in what he calls a “poll-deflating feedback loop.”
ROCHESTER, N.H. — Expressing confidence that American voters do not care if he lacks specifics, Donald J. Trump says he has yet to fully exploit his personal advantages over his Republican presidential rivals — chiefly his enormous wealth and celebrity — and that both will matter more to his political fate than debate performances like his shaky one this week.
Mr. Trump said in an interview that he was prepared to spend $100 million or more to become the Republican nominee and that most of it would go to galvanizing voter support in states with early nominating contests. While he boasted last month that he would spend $1 billion if need be, he said that a realistic amount would be far less and that he would count on the national Republican Party for financial help if he became the nominee.
He also predicted that the extensive media coverage of his campaign would help him win caucuses and primaries in every region of the country, saying that he had planned to spend $15 million on campaign commercials this summer but did not because of the “free nationwide publicity” that the cable news networks provided.
After three months surging in Republican polls and putting rivals like Jeb Bush, a former governor of Florida, and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin on the defensive, Mr. Trump faced increasingly combative opponents in Wednesday’s debate — particularly the business executive Carly Fiorina, who confronted him repeatedly. He drew some harsh notices for his vague and blustery answers — as well as for his decision, at a rally here on Thursday night, to breeze past an audience member’s false statement that President Obama was a Muslim.
A Republican opponent, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey, and the leading Democratic candidate, Hillary Rodham Clinton, both sharply criticized Mr. Trump on Friday for not stating that Mr. Obama is a Christian.
“He’s got to decide how serious a candidate he wants to be,” Mr. Christie said on NBC’s “Today” show, “and how he handles different problems like this are going to determine that in the eyes of the American people.”
Mr. Trump has so far glided through controversy and criticism that might derail other candidates. Yet the attacks from rivals and outside conservative groups are only beginning — a development he appeared to acknowledge as he highlighted his own advantages in the months to come.
Mr. Trump sidestepped a question about not correcting the remark that Mr. Obama is a Muslim — “The bigger issue is that Obama is waging a war against Christians in this country,” he said. But he also said that Americans liked the fact that he did not react to things like voter anger and debate questions with the ordinary language of politicians.
He said he did not give many specific answers at the debate because he believed that most people cared more about seeing his pugnacious leadership style than hearing detailed policy plans. He denied that he was unprepared for foreign policy questions, saying that he had received briefings from national security officials (whom he would not name), but that he preferred to speak in “broad strokes” about his views.
“One of the greats who believed in broad strokes was Ronald Reagan,” Mr. Trump said in the interview late Thursday night after a rally here, which drew about 3,000 people. He said he was “very detail-oriented,” had issued an immigration plan and would offer a tax plan in three weeks. “But I am a person who does not necessarily believe in plans that have 14 steps. Because when the second step gets out of whack, you’re screwed. I don’t think the voters care about specifics. I think the press cares, but I’ve never had a voter ask for my policy papers.”
Yet some New Hampshire voters said they came to Thursday’s rally in hopes of hearing more details from Mr. Trump.
“I’m open to Trump but I want him to calm down a little and start delivering some real meat about how he would solve problems as president,” said Nancy Carroll, a retired teacher from Rochester.
Maggie Moore of Durham, N.H., said she was frustrated that Mr. Trump “doesn’t offer support for his arguments, but just says what he believes and hopes it catches on.”
“I’m more impressed with Marco Rubio because he seems more substantive,” Ms. Moore said, referring to the Florida senator.
Mr. Trump countered that many voters are satisfied with his candidacy, citing a New York Times/CBS News poll this week that found that 39 percent of Republican primary voters viewed him as their best chance at winning the presidency, compared with 26 percent in a CBS survey last month. He acknowledged that polls are often wrong this early, but said he believed — based on his crowds and feedback from his ground organizers, as well as his ability to spend heavily — that his candidacy would remain durable.
A $100 million campaign, which Mr. Trump said was at the lower end of what he was willing to commit to winning the Republican nomination, would be a record for self-financing in a presidential contest. Ross Perot spent more than $63 million on his third-party bid in 1992, according to the Open Secrets website. But former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York and Meg Whitman, who lost her bid to become California’s governor, each spent more than $100 million on their campaigns.
Still, Mr. Trump added that if he were the nominee, “the Republican Party will kick in money, the whole party thing will get involved, but still I will spend whatever is necessary.”
Spending is not a preoccupation, Mr. Trump said, in part because he has spent so little this summer. Advisers say he has spent $1.9 million of his own money so far, mostly on about 40 paid campaign staff members and standard expenses to travel and hold events. (Additional money for campaign costs has also come from unsolicited donations and online sales of his trademark campaign baseball hats; advisers did not have a total estimate for that revenue.) When Mr. Trump joined the race in mid-June, he said he expected to spend $15 million in television commercials over the first three months, but he has yet to run any.
“I’ve gotten so much free advertising, it’s like nothing I’d have expected,” he said. “When you look at cable television, a lot of the programs are 100 percent Trump, so why would you need more Trump during the commercial breaks?”
WASHINGTON — Two events last month made for a strange juxtaposition: a celebration of a Southern president, Jimmy Carter, after he disclosed his battle with cancer, and the enthusiastic crowds that turned out in the South for the Republican candidates Donald J. Trump and Ted Cruz.
There are few political figures with more differences between them. Mr. Carter is a former nuclear submarine commander and born-again Sunday school teacher; Mr. Trump, an egocentric real estate magnate; and Mr. Cruz, a Texas senator and self-styled right-wing rabble rouser who relishes belittling Mr. Carter.
Today’s South, or at least the majority white South, belongs more to Mr. Cruz or Mr. Trump than to the former Democratic president and governor from Georgia.
In 1976, Mr. Carter carried 10 of the 11 states of the old Confederacy; the outlier was Virginia, which is probably the most Democratic-leaning today.
Bill Clinton, another Southerner, didn’t do quite so well, but he won the culturally conservative states of Louisiana, Arkansas and Tennessee, as well as the border states of Kentucky and West Virginia. Shortly before his 1992 victory, he even thought he could carry Mississippi; he didn’t.
Now, only Virginia, Florida and North Carolina are competitive in a national race. The other Southern states are reliably Republican. When Mr. Carter was president, 78 out of 108 House members were white Democrats; today only 14 of the 138 representatives from these states meet that description.
The number of black voters in the South has grown, as has the new Hispanic population. But both groups are outnumbered by white voters who have become overwhelmingly conservative and Republican.
“It’s religion, economics, the military, immigration; race is only part of it,” said Merle Black, an expert on Southern politics at Emory University. 
There have been two seminal moments. When President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the 1964 Civil Rights Act, he predicted to an aide that there’d be a white backlash enabling the Republicans to dominate Southern politics for a long time. Racial animosities in the region have been further stirred by the election of the first black president.
The second moment was the creation of a powerful Christian conservative political movement. Mr. Carter captured his fellow born-agains in the 1976 presidential contest, but they turned on him and mobilized into a potent force that has remained Republican since. Much of this strength has to do with cultural or moral issues such as opposition to abortion and gay rights. There also is a racial element, such as immigrant-bashing and false claims that President Obama was not born in the United States.
Evangelicals or born-again white Christians, who form the base of the Republican Party, account for as much as 40 percent of the electorate in some Southern states. Mr. Obama narrowly lost North Carolina in the last presidential election; white born-agains were 35 percent of the vote and went almost four-to-one for Mitt Romney. Most Democratic gubernatorial and senatorial candidates have done almost as poorly in the South.
The region’s clout in the Republican Party will be evident with the first big round of presidential nomination contests — the so-called SEC primary, named after the Southern college football conference. Six Southern or border states will be voting and could tilt the race even more to the right.
The several states that are competitive have had a major influx of new voters, in areas such as the northern Virginia suburbs of Washington and North Carolina’s Research Triangle. In general, these newer residents are less culturally conservative and more receptive to voting for Democrats.
Another bright note for Democrats: Six of the Southern states that are out of play for them — Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, South Carolina, Louisiana and Tennessee — have a total of 49 electoral votes. California, which used to be reliably Republican in presidential elections but has gone Democratic in the past half-dozen national races, has 55 electoral votes. 
Business wonk that I am, my favorite moment in last week’s Republican debate came when Carly Fiorina and Donald Trump got into a spat over which of them had the lousier track record as business leaders.
“The company is a disaster,” scoffed Trump, referring to Hewlett-Packard, the iconic technology company Fiorina ran from 1999 to 2005. Trump continued: “When Carly says the revenues went up that’s because she bought Compaq. It was a terrible deal, and it really led to the destruction of the company.”
Fiorina responded by focusing on how Trump ran his three Atlantic City casinos into the ground. “You ran up mountains of debt, as well as losses,” she said, “using other people’s money, and you were forced to file for bankruptcy not once, not twice [but] four times, a record four times.”
They’re both right. Fiorina’s tenure at HP was indeed a disaster, and Trump’s casino interests did indeed file for bankruptcy multiple times. Now that Trump and Fiorina are number one and number two in a recent poll — oy! — it’s worth taking a closer look at their business records.
Fiorina’s effort to revise her reputation began in October 2006, some 20 months after she was ousted as the chief executive of HP, when she published her autobiography. In it, she claimed that she had taken a company that was adrift and gotten it humming again. She described her firing as the action of a dysfunctional board, which it certainly was. But that was in no small part because the directors played Charlie Brown to her Lucy. Again and again, she would say that progress was right around the corner, and they believed her; again and again, she disappointed.
By every metric that mattered, HP was in far worse shape when she was fired than when she was hired. The company’s stock price dropped more than 50 percent during her tenure, compared to a 7 percent drop in the S.&P. 500. And net earnings dropped to $2.4 billion from $3.1 billion during that same time. The Compaq merger, meanwhile, was a misguided fiasco; today, virtually all remnants of it have disappeared from HP. Fiorina’s me-me-me leadership style demoralized the company and its shareholders. When she walked out the door in February 2005 — with a $21 million severance package — the stock jumped nearly 7 percent.
Trump? He’s a business legend, all right, — in his own mind. To listen to him, you’d think he is the greatest business person of all time. He is not even close. What he mainly is, as his presidential campaign is proving, is our era’s P.T. Barnum.
The key fact about Trump’s early success is that it would never have happened without his father Fred’s money. As Tim O’Brien points out in his highly entertaining 2005 biography, “TrumpNation,” Trump would have flopped in his first foray in the big time — turning the Commodore Hotel into the Grand Hyatt in Midtown Manhattan — if his father had not lent him the money to cover cost overruns.
According to O’Brien, Fred Trump bailed out his son on other occasions, most notably when he bought $3.5 million worth of chips at one of Trump’s casinos — and then didn’t use them to gamble, in violation of state casino regulations — so that his son would have enough to make a loan payment.
As for the casino bankruptcies, Trump likes to characterize them as shrewd business moves, and stresses that he never filed for personal bankruptcy. But those corporate bankruptcies were costly; he wound up having to give up many of his real estate holdings, and was even put on a monthly budget for a time.
And with some $900 million in personal guarantees, he avoided personal bankruptcy by a whisker. Again, according to O’Brien, Trump borrowed millions from his siblings to keep his head above water. Today, a far more cautious Donald Trump runs what amounts to a Potemkin company, with a staff that mainly licenses his “brand.” He owns very few of the buildings with the Trump name on them.
Trump claims, implausibly, to be worth over $8 billion. (Forbes puts his net worth at half that amount.) But even taking him at his word, that sum is less impressive than you’d think. As several writers have pointed out, if, in 1988, he had simply put his money in a stock index fund, it would be worth $13 billion today. In effect, his post-1988 business career has cost him $5 billion.
Even putting aside their policy positions, their narcissism, their poor records as leaders and their lack of scruples in spinning failures as triumphs all suggest that Fiorina and Trump would make terrible presidents. To my mind, there is only one entrepreneur who has both a record of true business accomplishment and government service to merit consideration as a presidential candidate.
I can’t be the only one who wishes Michael Bloomberg would enter the race, can I?
When I wrote about “The Art of the Deal” for this weekend’s Times issue of Sunday Business, I couldn’t fit all the best nuggets from the book into a single article. So, here are some bonus takeaways from Donald Trump’s 1987 best-seller, the book he calls the second best in the world after the Bible.
1. He was eager to forge a deal with the Soviet government to build a luxury hotel in Moscow. My article focused on his cozy relationships with governments in New York and New Jersey, but his ambition for public-private partnerships ran much broader than the metropolitan area. Near the start of the book, he wrote about an exchange he had in 1986:
At the end of the book, Trump wrote that he did in fact travel to Moscow in 1987: “We toured half a dozen potential sites for a hotel, including several near Red Square. We stayed in Lenin’s suite at the National Hotel, and I was impressed with the ambition of the Soviet officials to make a deal.”
Alas, this deal does not seem to have come to fruition, perhaps because the late 1980s were a less-than-stable time in Moscow’s real estate market.
2. He has flashy taste in décor. Well, actually, I already knew that. But there are some particularly amazing examples in the book — including his dispute with an executive from the Equitable Life Insurance company, his partner in developing Trump Tower, about how frequently the building’s brass fixtures should be polished.
“My policy was to have all the brass in the atrium polished twice a month,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Why, this fellow asked, couldn’t we save some money by polishing once every couple of months?”
Instead of cutting back the brass-polishing schedule, Mr. Trump bought out Equitable’s interest in the building.
As for his own penthouse apartment in Trump Tower, Mr. Trump said his then-under-construction residence would be “about as close as you’re going to get, in the twentieth century, to the quality of Versailles,” including 27 hand-carved Italian marble columns in the living room. “They’re beautiful,” he wrote of the columns.
But he understands you don’t always have to be over the top. “Sometimes — not often, but sometimes — less is more,” he wrote, explaining why he went with the simple option of “a huge and magnificent gold wreath” to decorate Trump Tower’s entrance at Christmas. It seems he eventually changed his mind about less ever being more: By Christmas 2011, the gold wreath had been joined by huge gold stars festooning the building’s facade on Fifth Avenue.
3. His distaste for polls and consultants isn’t limited to politics. In the book, Mr. Trump repeatedly decried the market researchers and consultants that many businesses rely on: “I don’t trust fancy marketing surveys. I do my own surveys and draw my own conclusions.” He wrote about how he liked to ask cabdrivers what they thought of city neighborhoods before investing in real estate.
4. He’s not afraid to rank his own siblings. He wrote that his sister Maryanne, a federal judge, “is really something.” Then he added, “My younger sister, Elizabeth, is kind and bright but less ambitious.”
5. He knows you sometimes have to spend money to make money. As I noted, he justified public spending on a convention center by arguing it would boost the city’s economy and its image. He followed that up with a broader argument about countercyclical spending, whether in the public or private sector:
6. A Mexican border wall isn’t the first thing he’s boldly proposed that someone else pay for. In 1985, Mr. Trump owned the New Jersey Generals, a franchise in the United States Football League. He signed a prominent quarterback, Doug Flutie, and gave him a salary over $1 million a year, which was very high for the upstart league. After a game when Mr. Flutie gave a “dazzling” performance, Mr. Trump had an idea:
7. When he owned a football franchise, he told the coach what plays to run. The Generals had an excellent running back, Herschel Walker, but Mr. Trump felt they weren’t running the ball enough. “I ranted and raved to our coach, Walt Michaels, but it wasn’t until I literally threatened to fire him that he got the point,” he wrote.
His micromanagement of his team’s coach stands somewhat in contrast to his admonition early in the book that “you’re generally better off sticking with what you know.”
8. He hasn’t always hated George Will. In recent years, he’s called the conservative columnist “stupid,” a “political moron,” a “disaster,” “wrong on so many subjects,” and, perhaps most woundingly of all, “boring.” But in 1987, he had nice things to say about Mr. Will, because Mr. Will had written nice things about Mr. Trump’s plan to build a 150-story building on the West Side of Manhattan.
“I’ve always liked Will, because he’s not afraid to challenge fashion,” Mr. Trump wrote. “My only regret was that George Will didn’t have a seat on the City Planning Commission.”
9. He’s known for a long time that generating controversy isn’t always a bad thing. In 1980 he got a lot of bad press (including a negative editorial in this newspaper) for destroying friezes and iron grillwork on the old Bonwit Teller department store building, because preserving them would have delayed demolition that was necessary to make way for Trump Tower. But the criticism had an upside.
10. He’s also long known that a spectacle can impress people even if there is no substance behind it. In 1982, he wanted Holiday Inn to buy a stake in his casino project in Atlantic City, and he was concerned it would decline because construction wasn’t far enough along. So he told his construction manager to hire a ton of bulldozers and dump trucks to move dirt around the site, so it would look extremely busy when Holiday Inn executives made a site visit. The instructions were simple:
According to Mr. Trump, this display worked: “These distinguished corporate leaders looked on, some of them visibly awed. I’ll never forget one of them turning to me, shaking his head, and saying, ‘You know, it’s great when you’re a private guy, and you can just pull out all the stops.’ ”
Of all the lessons in “The Art of the Deal,” this may be the one most directly informing Mr. Trump’s campaign.
On a recent afternoon, Sabrina Dabakarov stood under the colonnaded portico of her family’s brick home on Midland Parkway in Queens and gestured at a neighborhood lined with oak trees and stately houses that for a century has played home to doctors, politicians and political bosses on 500 acres of hilly, meandering streets.
“This is supposed to be the melting pot — it’s Queens!” she said. “But when you are living in Jamaica Estates, it’s more secluded. There are kids I know who are 16 who can’t go down the block to the subway. It depends on what you are exposed to.”
This is the house and neighborhood that Donald J. Trump grew up in more than a half-century ago. A wealthy enclave built in part by his father, Jamaica Estates, with its cloistered atmosphere, nurtured the development of one of the city’s great developers, who is now the leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination.
Mr. Trump may live in a gilded Trump Tower triplex in Manhattan, but it is his Queens childhood that provided him with old neighborhood authenticity and the us-versus-them combativeness that the Republican base has eaten up. While his detractors charge that his language on the campaign trail is infected with an Archie Bunker-era nativism, Mr. Trump points in his defense to his formative years in one of the most diverse counties in the country.
But the Jamaica Estates of Mr. Trump’s boyhood was an exclusive and nearly all-white place, resistant to outsiders and largely impenetrable to minorities.
“Different parts of Queens were rough; this was an oasis,” Mr. Trump said in an interview. He said Jamaica Estates “was safe — it was very family oriented.” He recalled taking the F train down the block into the city and called the area a “microcosm” that gave him perspective on New York and “what it was all about.”
But some residents of his old neighborhood, and the more diverse areas that surround it, say they do not think he understands what the city, and the country, are all about. Hispanics, Trinidadians, Haitians and South Asians who walked this month in front of fried chicken joints, halal butchers and roti shops on Hillside Avenue, down the road from Mr. Trump’s old house, expressed disgust with his blunt vision of an America besieged by “rapist” immigrants who are in the country illegally and black activists who he has said are “looking for trouble.”
They considered him a camera-hungry candidate who is capitalizing on the fear among white voters that the America they grew up in is fading.
“Old age is starting to creep up,” Melvin Hanna, a 57-year-old African-American man who lives in an apartment building down the street, said about Mr. Trump’s assertion that immigrants who were in the country illegally were now infiltrating gangs in predominantly black cities. But Mr. Hanna said he worried that the high level of support for Mr. Trump, who explicitly appeals to what he calls the “silent majority“ of Americans, showed that “some of what he is saying is what people are saying behind closed doors.”
Not all of that talk remained behind closed doors during a recent visit to Jamaica Estates.
“I think he’s spot on,” said Fred Quint, 52, Mr. Trump’s former next-door neighbor. He recalled watching Mr. Trump’s father, Fred, leave for work every day in his chauffeured blue Cadillac limousine and seeing Donald return home for visits in a red convertible with his first wife, Ivana.
Mr. Quint explained that “racially speaking,” he and Mr. Trump “grew up in white America.” Today, he added, “it’s a much more racially mixed neighborhood, much more diverse,” with people who are Hindu, Muslim and Chinese.
“It’s the way of the world; white America is a thing of the past,” he said with a shrug. “The white man’s gone.”
Mr. Trump acknowledged that the neighborhood around his 23-room, nine-bathroom mansion had changed.
“The world is much different; turn on the television,” he said, adding, “That’s called life in New York, and I think that’s a wonderful thing.”
And in an appearance on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday, Mr. Trump answered questions about his failure to correct a supporter who asserted that Muslims were “a problem in this country” and that President Obama was one by saying: “I have friends that are Muslims. They’re great people, amazing people.”
He would probably not have met them in the Jamaica Estates of his youth.
A 1910 brochure assured prospective buyers looking for a refuge amid the acres of elm and chestnut trees that “Jamaica Estates is the same distance from Herald Square that Columbia University is from City Hall.” Successive developers fought to keep building restrictions in the neighborhood in place and housing prices high.
The Trump family home was built by its patriarch, Fred C. Trump, who died in 1999. Mr. Trump called his father the person “I learned more from than anyone else.”
Fred Trump was born in 1905 to struggling German immigrants and raised in the working-class neighborhood of Woodhaven, Queens, where a plaque honors him as “father of ‘The Donald.’”
Fred’s father, an innkeeper who quenched the assorted appetites of Klondike gold rush miners before becoming a struggling New York developer, succumbed to pneumonia when his son was 13. At the onset of the Roaring Twenties, Fred started his own construction business, forming E. Trump & Son with his mother, Elizabeth, because he needed a partner old enough to sign the checks.
They found success building garages for newly popular cars and moved to Jamaica Estates, where he eventually built suburban-style Tudors and Victorian and colonial-style homes for the upper middle class.
After the Great Depression, he pretended to be Swedish so as not to drive off Jewish tenants, as he made his fortune building solid, low-cost housing. Along the way, he married Mary MacLeod, a Scottish immigrant, and together they had five children, including Donald in 1946.
The Trumps lived in a two-story mock Tudor home on Wareham Place, where on a recent afternoon Jose Rivas, 43, mowed grass on a small front lawn and shook his head at what he considered Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant language.
“Many, many Spanish people come here and work and pay taxes,” he said, looking around and admiring the homes. “I like it here. It’s beautiful.”
In 1950, the city opened the 179th Street subway station on the corner of Hillside Avenue and Midland Parkway. (“It’s the last stop on the F line, a neighborhood so outer-borough it might as well be in another state,” New York magazine once sneered.) The new station was just down the road from where Fred Trump built the family homestead the next year.
Even as a child, Donald loved to build things. “I always loved playing with blocks, anything having to do with blocks,” Mr. Trump said.
In the mornings, his father left for work in one of his two Cadillacs (license plates FT1 and FT2) and the Trump children often went next door to play with Heather Macintosh.
“The Macintoshes, nice people,” Mr. Trump said.
Edmund Hayes, Heather’s eventual husband, said his wife told him that the Trump children “never got a hug or a kiss” in their strict home, and that Donald was hypercompetitive. “She really didn’t like him,” he said of his wife.
Young Donald treated his home as a fortress. Laura Manuelidis, who lived behind Mr. Trump on Wareham Place, recalled that when a ball bounced into the Trumps’ grassy yard, he would not throw the ball back but instead would yell, “I’m going to tell my dad; I’m going to call the police.”
Several people in the neighborhood fondly remembered the older Trumps bagging their own groceries when shopping along Union Turnpike, the northern border of the neighborhood, which now is increasingly modern Orthodox. One woman eating in a bagel shop on 188th Street had a less rosy memory of the Trumps.
“They lived right behind us,” said Chava Ben-Amos, who recalled a time when Fred Trump asked her if he could put a television antenna on their roof, which, because it was higher than the Trumps’ home, could receive a clearer signal.
“We said, ‘Yes, but can we use it?’ “ Ms. Ben-Amos said. “Can we connect it to our TV?”
“They said ‘No,’ “ she said. “So we said, ‘Forget it.’ “
Donald went to a private school on Union Turnpike and struck up a friendship with Peter Brant, who became a billionaire industrialist, art collector and tabloid fixture for his off-again-on-again marriage to the former Victoria’s Secret model Stephanie Seymour.
“Peter and I loved sports,” Mr. Trump said.
They also loved causing trouble, leading his father to ship Mr. Trump to military school north of the city. From there, he went to college and into business with his father in Brooklyn before conquering Manhattan real estate.
“I wanted them to move into Trump Tower, and my mother loved the idea,” Mr. Trump said. “But my father really loved staying in Queens.”
Decades later, Mr. Trump remains the area’s most famous son. While his former neighbor, Mr. Quint, had read Mr. Trump’s book, “The Art of the Deal,” and expressed confidence in Mr. Trump’s ability to build a wall along the Mexican border, the young woman who lived in his old house, Ms. Dabakarov, was less enthusiastic about his candidacy.
“This whole country will basically implode” if he is elected, she said. “He’s like a half-century behind.”
“A political storm is not coming. It is already here,” Glen Bolger, a Republican pollster, wrote last week on the website of his firm, Public Opinion Strategies.
The anger voters feel at corporations and the political class has reached heights not seen since the Great Depression.
However long Donald Trump lasts, the forces that prompted his ascent may be more politically consequential than a mere outburst of discontent from Americans in the early stage of a presidential election would suggest. Trump’s improbable success so far may have the potential to shift politics and the policy agenda.
In Trump, Republican primary voters have picked an unexpected standard-bearer for a protest against money in politics. Counterintuitively, the billionaire provocateur boasts of using campaign contributions to buy politicians: “When you give, they do whatever the hell you want them to do.”
In the first Republican debate, on Aug. 6, Trump elaborated:
Trump has contributed $1.5 million to candidates and parties over the past two decades — $584,850 to Democrats and $961,140 to Republicans. He also brags about his influence-buying prowess, with lobbyists in Washington, New York, New Jersey and Illinois:
Others have noticed the crazy situation in which Trump’s pronouncements about his participation in a corrupt system are taken by his fans as evidence of his incorruptibility.
Trump’s signal appeal, according to Bolger, stems from voters’ belief that “the deck is stacked against them by politics and politicians, big business and bankers, the media, and other American and world institutions.”
Bolger tells Republican officeholders – the core of his clientele – to:
“There is a belief,” Bolger adds, “that Washington, D.C., is not working because the politicians have been sidetracked by power, money and Potomac Fever.”
Trump, for the moment, appears to be exempt from these critiques, insulated — in the eyes of his supporters – by his own vast wealth from special interest pressures.
At a news conference on July 26, Trump declared that his ability to pay for his own campaign frees him from fealty to donors:
Trump embodies precisely what his supporters say they hate – the exploitation of money and lobbyists to get his way. Nonetheless, he seems to have turned this to advantage by openly acknowledging how he has worked the system. His promise is to control the system on behalf of those who vote for him, rather than being controlled by it.
“It’s a collective middle finger to the establishment,” a Trump supporter told the Atlantic’s Conor Friedersdorf. “Trump has never lied to me whereas all of the other Republican politicians (like McConnell & Boehner) have,” wrote another reader, who added, “Nobody fights for my side. Trump fights. Trump wins. I want an Alpha Male who is going to take it to the enemy.” A third Trump loyalist wrote: “This is a guy who isn’t afraid to abuse the abuser. He has and will continue to humiliate the establishment politicians who try to stand up to him by exposing them for who they are. “
Along parallel lines, Leigh Ann Crouse of Dubuque, Ia., told The Associated Press: “He has a backbone and he cannot be bought.”
In an August Harvard Business Review article titled “Why People Are Drawn to Narcissists Like Donald Trump,” Michael Maccoby, a corporate consultant, wrote:
Maccoby calls such leaders people “productive narcissists” and describes them as “not vulnerable to intimidation.” They are characterized by “a large amount of aggressive energy and a bias for action.” In an earlier Harvard Business Review article, he noted that
Of course, Trump is not the only candidate catapulted or crushed by voters’ rage. Their resentment of the political status quo targets both Democrats and Republicans. Stan Greenberg, a Democratic pollster, said in a phone interview that voters “see both parties as equally corrupt.” He described current attitudes as “a huge change. This is not a ‘goo-goo’ good government issue” driven by upscale reformers. “It’s a real issue.”
Steve Israel, a Democratic congressman who represents parts of Queens and Long Island, is chairman of the House Democratic Policy and Communications Committee. He has been using the party’s pollsters, focus group specialists and consultants to conduct an extensive study of voters.
Israel told me that most voters see their own position as fragile, vulnerable to collapse in hard times. People who in the past blamed structural forces for their difficulties, including globalization and trade, now “blame politicians.”
Voters, Israel says, are making “an obscene gesture to Washington. D.C.”
Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster, echoed Democratic talking points in his emailed analysis of the contemporary electorate.
Members of the middle class
Drew Westen, a professor of psychology at Emory, contends that common ground can be found among Democrats, Republicans and independents in a contempory variant of populism.
Westen provided The Times with a graphic illustrating how voters of both parties and independents responded positively or negatively, using hand-held metered dials, as a one-minute and 15 second statement was read aloud:
The accompanying chart illustrates how focus group participants, listening to these words, expressed steadily increasing support, whether they were Republicans, Democrats, or independents.
The downward trajectories of Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush, the two mainstream establishment candidates, provide the strongest evidence yet of voter skepticism of customary political promises.
Clinton and Bush have offered the public just what they thought they were supposed to. In a July 13 speech in New York, Clinton told voters that “wages need to rise to keep up with costs, paychecks need to grow. Families who work hard and do their part deserve to get ahead and stay ahead.” Bush, in turn, declared on Sept. 9 in North Carolina that the “new normal is a comfortable ride for the affluent people that live off their portfolios,” pledging that his “plan will help those who live on their paychecks, who haven’t seen a raise in a while.”
Instead of rising in the polls, Clinton and Bush are faltering. On the day Clinton gave her most explicitly populist speech, July 23, she stood at 62.8 percent in the polls for the Democratic nomination. Today, she stands at 44.7 percent, an 18.1 point drop among voters in her own party. Bush, who as recently as July 15 led the Republican field standing at 17 percent, has fallen to a weak third place, now standing at 7.8 percent, according to RealClearPolitics.
Some analysts argue that the unexpected developments over the past nine months will fade in importance as mainstream candidates develop effective campaign strategies to restore their legitimacy.
David Winston, a Republican pollster, observed in an email that the Trump spectacle is likely to dim once other candidates focus their attention on economic issues and “address those concerns in a way that people think could actually work.”
Conventional candidates are likely, however, to face difficulty in making credible claims that they will improve the lot of the middle class. As Neil Irwin of The Times reported on Sept. 16:
Bush and Clinton have something more in common: a long history of collecting millions of dollars from powerful interests, both individual and corporate, and deep roots in political dynasties. Their fund-raising success threatens to be a significant liability in the current climate.
The Republican primary process, of all places, has become a test of the balance of power between elites and the affluent on the one hand, and middle- and working-class voters on the other.
For those who would like to see the middle and working classes politically empowered, Donald Trump, the overbearing, narcissistic, xenophobic casino and real estate magnate, would seem to be a weak reed to grasp. It would be the irony of ironies if this particular billionaire gave voice to the millions of voters who find themselves well outside the circle of power.
YouTube is the world’s biggest music-streaming service, a fact that is often obscured in the cloud of competition between rivals like Spotify and Apple Music. Of the estimated one trillion songs streamed globally in the first half of this year, about two-thirds were delivered via video sites led by YouTube, while the rest were streamed by audio-only services like Spotify and Pandora, according to the music analytics firm Next Big Sound.
Why is video now the way so many people find music online? YouTube, with its frequent ads and inflamed comment threads, isn’t the most obvious Internet-age replacement for the radio or record player. But Dan Rayburn, a principal analyst for digital media at the market research firm Frost & Sullivan, said YouTube music videos are often the fastest and most reliably free way of playing a song.
“The biggest reason is just convenience,” Mr. Rayburn said. “Pick any song right now. I can type it into Google and a video will pop up instantly. That’s much easier than having to find it on Pandora or iTunes and then asking yourself: ‘Do I download it? Can I stream it? Is it free?”’
Many who click on these videos aren’t even watching them, Mr. Rayburn noted, adding, “In many cases they’re just playing it in the background.”
The vast size of YouTube’s streaming audience is a sore spot for recording artists who complain that the rates the site pays are woefully insufficient, even by comparison to some other streaming services. In April, the Portishead musician Geoff Barrow posted an estimate on Twitter lamenting how 34 million streams of his band’s music on YouTube and other services earned him just $2,500 in earnings after taxes.
Allen Bargfrede, a professor at Berklee College of Music who studies the way streaming companies compensate artists, says it is strange that YouTube has escaped criticism heaped on audio services, particularly Spotify. “It’s a valid question: Why did Taylor Swift take this stance against Spotify but not YouTube?” he said, referring to the pop singer’s decision to remove her catalog from Spotify last year because of the low rates paid by its ad-supported service. “YouTube pays the least, but there’s a lot more ire directed at other sites.”
According to a recent analysis by Mr. Bargfrede, YouTube pays music rights’ owners, typically record labels, around one-thousandth of a cent per stream. An artist’s individual royalties are an even smaller percentage of that amount.
While it’s perhaps easy to target YouTube, the company isn’t exactly raking it in. YouTube failed to turn a profit last year, despite generating $4 billion in revenue, which was about 6 percent of the total sales of its parent company, Google. Increasing profitability may be one reason YouTube is introducing its own ad-free subscription tier, Music Key, which is now available in beta or trial mode and is expected to be released this year at a cost of $9.99 per month.
NORTH CHARLESTON, S.C. — Donald J. Trump was never exactly a happy warrior, but with some of his Republican rivals gaining on him, he is showing clear signs of discontent.
Appearing here on Wednesday afternoon at what was billed as an African-American small business meeting, Mr. Trump used his remarks before a largely white audience to argue that his lead in the polls was not being sufficiently covered, repeatedly complained about the high temperature inside the Ronald Reagan Library at last week’s debate, and lamented that any attacks on Carly Fiorina would be depicted as sexist.
And he did so in a convention center ballroom in which about a third of the seats were unfilled.
Mr. Trump found a far larger crowd on Wednesday night at a candidate forum in Columbia hosted by Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina, filling most of an auditorium’s 2,200 seats on the University of South Carolina campus. 
But Mr. Trump kept up his grumbling there. He used a news conference before the forum to continue a recently renewed feud with Fox News, mock a conservative group that is airing attack ads against him and complain to an NBC reporter that the network is citing a CNN poll that shows Ms. Fiorina gaining support rather than NBC’s own survey, which shows Mr. Trump holding a larger lead. 
And when he took the stage with Mr. Scott, two well-appointed chairs awaiting them, Mr. Trump decided to first stand and offer his own preamble before the question-and-answer session with the senator.
Holding up a printout of a Florida newspaper, he twice read a headline referring to Senator Marco Rubio of Florida and Jeb Bush: “Rubio passes Bush in Florida poll.”
Then, with a flourish, he read the lead of the article, which noted that Mr. Trump was still enjoying a strong lead among Florida Republicans.
“They don’t even put me in the headline, and I’m crushing it,” he said. “The press is very dishonest. Not all of it, but much of it.”
Mr. Trump began his remarks in the first event in almost the exact same way. He noted that he was not in the headline, but concluded by flinging the piece of paper he was reading into the crowd in the fashion of a rock star flicking his guitar pick at a fan.
Perhaps conscious of the empty seats in the back of the room, he repeatedly commented on the size of the audience and said he had added the event to his schedule with little notice. 
But, more troubling for a candidate who is heavily reliant on television coverage, there were only a handful of TV cameras in the back of the room, and the national cable stations spent little time on the event. MSNBC carried it for less than four minutes, CNN around six minutes and Fox did not carry the speech at all.
Mr. Trump’s speech was typically discursive. He recalled being sued by a woman whom he deemed “a horrible human being,” attacked Boeing (a large local employer) for opening a plant in China and criticized his Republican opponents and Hillary Rodham Clinton on a number of fronts.
Claiming that CNN added time to the Republican debate last week to bring in more ad revenue, he asserted that the temperature hit triple figures inside the Reagan Library.
“Let’s let these suckers stand up there for another hour in a room that was 100 degrees,” Mr. Trump said, mimicking unnamed CNN executives. “That room was hot. I mean, poor Chris Christie.”
The audience broke into laughs and cheers, and for good measure, Mr. Trump noted that Mike Huckabee and Mr. Rubio were also very sweaty at the end of the debate (“He was soaking wet,” Mr. Trump recounted of Mr. Huckabee).
What Mr. Trump did not talk much about was African-American business. He did explain he had good black friends in New York and claimed he was attracting significant black support in the Republican primary. 
As for policy related to African-American entrepreneurship, Mr. Trump said he wanted to overturn the Dodd-Frank financial law and called one black businessman to the stage, gave him a handshake, leaned in for a semihug and said he wanted the man to be negotiating with the Chinese.
Mr. Trump’s biggest applause line came when he said, “I am so tired of this politically correct crap.” It drew most of the attendees to their feet, but many of the African-Americans in the crowd neither clapped nor stood.
“Not good, not good, not good, honestly not good,” said Wilbert J. Louis Jr., a business consultant from Summerville, S.C., who seemed dumbfounded by what he had seen. Mr. Louis added of Mr. Trump’s performance, “All over the map and not on the map at all.”
In the same city where earlier this year, a black man was fatally shot in the back by a police officer, and just a few miles up the road from where nine black churchgoers were killed by a white gunman, Mr. Trump said nothing in his speech about either crime. 
In a brief interview after the North Charleston speech, Mr. Trump, sitting in the front seat of a sport utility vehicle, vowed that he would pay the required $40,000 to the South Carolina Republican Party to be on the ballot here next year. And to prove his claim, he had his campaign manager, sitting in the back seat, pass forward a copy of the check, which Mr. Trump then held up for a reporter. 
“I’m leading in every poll,” Mr. Trump declared twice, dismissing questions about whether he would be competitive here during the state’s February primary. 
Mr. Trump handed over the check later and, to make clear that was duly recorded, had aides pass photocopies of a notarized statement of candidacy to reporters in the back of the auditorium while his forum with Mr. Scott was underway.
Mr. Trump did not attack his opponents as fiercely in the exchange with Mr. Scott as he had earlier in the day, but the presidential hopeful did seize more opportunities to grouse about news media coverage. “I’m much smarter than any of these talking heads,” he said. “Ninety percent of them are morons.”
Yet Mr. Scott gently steered the conversation toward policy issues and, as the hourlong event neared its end, Mr. Trump made clear that he had had enough.
The senator said he was down to his final two or three questions, to which Mr. Trump responded, “Good!”
Rarely has a final-race showdown in Formula One had a more apocalyptic, portentous and dramatic setting than at the 1976 Japanese Grand Prix at the Mount Fuji circuit. 
In fact, the story of the epic battle that year between the Austrian driver Niki Lauda of the Ferrari team and the British driver James Hunt of the McLaren team is the subject of the 2013 movie by Ron Howard about Formula One racing, “Rush.”
Participants in that final race, on Oct. 24, 1976, still talk about the abominable weather conditions that day. If Howard’s movie made the race conditions look like something from a horror film, some of the most hardy racers in the history of the series need no Hollywood embellishments to make the day sound equally as horrific. 
Mario Andretti, who would go on to be the 1978 world champion and who had won the Indianapolis 500 in 1969, still calls the 1976 Japan race “the worst conditions I ever experienced at the start of a race.”
“Never, ever, ever had I experienced anything like it,” he added, saying that the aquaplaning was the worst he had ever driven through.
As the race began, there was little sunlight, rain was pouring down and rivers of water were flowing across the track, which was being used for the first time for a Formula One race, at this, the first Japanese Grand Prix. There was also fog, and, according to Andretti, if there was not quite zero visibility, there was still only about 10 percent. 
For Lauda, of course, there was even less than 10 percent visibility. 
Only three months before, at the German Grand Prix at the Nürburgring, Lauda had nearly died in a fiery crash. The gases from the fire that had engulfed his Ferrari had scorched his lungs and almost killed him. 
Lauda’s face, scalp and ear were permanently damaged from serious burns, and part of his eyelid had burned off. He also had problems with a tear duct, which meant that his eye was watering up and impeding his vision at the Japan race. 
It had already seemed to be something of a miracle that Lauda had returned to racing at all. He had missed only two races after the crash, returning at the Italian Grand Prix on Sept. 12. And by the time the series arrived at the Japan Grand Prix, the last of the season’s 16 races, Lauda was still leading the championship, 3 points ahead of Hunt. 
For several hours before the race, the drivers had tried to have it called off, or at least delayed, because of the weather conditions. But it was not to be. A major factor in that decision was that, given the drama of the season, there was a huge television audience waiting to see the final showdown that day.
When the race finally started, with Andretti on pole, Hunt in second and Lauda in third, Hunt sped off into the lead, with John Watson in a Penske behind him and Andretti leading the rest of the field. Lauda dropped down into the pack immediately, and then, after just two laps, with cars slipping all over — including Watson’s running off into an escape road — Lauda pulled into the pits and withdrew. 
“My life is worth more than a title,” he would say later. 
Some drivers said it was braver for Lauda to quit the race than to continue. Whatever their own thoughts had been about pulling out of the race or not (some others did quit), even most of those who slipped off the track were happy when their race ended.
Once Lauda was out, Hunt had to finish fourth or better to beat him to the title. In those conditions, Lauda had, in fact, plenty of reasons to think that Hunt would not be able to do so. First, with everyone sliding off and running into each other, there was a good chance that Hunt, too, would go off. Second, cars broke down frequently at the time. So one way or another, it was a gamble that might easily have paid off for Lauda. 
Later in the race, as the rain began to ease and the track began to dry, Hunt’s car began to lose position. On lap 62 he dropped behind Patrick Depailler and Andretti. Then, having problems with a tire, he had to make a pit stop and dropped to fifth. 
On Lap 71 of the 73-lap race, however, as others had various problems, he passed two cars and moved to third, which is where he finished the race. That was enough for him to leap over Lauda and secure the title.
Andretti won the race in his Lotus 77, his first victory in the series since the South African Grand Prix of 1971.
Lauda, who had won the title the previous year for Ferrari, would go on to win it again with the team, in 1977. He left the series in 1979 but rejoined in 1982 and won a third title at McLaren in 1984, by half a point over his teammate, Alain Prost. He then retired from racing in 1985, and started a successful airline. 
But Lauda would never stay far from the series, providing race commentary on television and now acting as the non-executive chairman of the Mercedes team, which won the series last year and is leading it again this season. 
Hunt, known as a flamboyant playboy, died of a heart attack in 1993 at the age of 45. 
WASHINGTON — After training his fire for much of the summer on former Gov. Jeb Bush, Donald J. Trump has found a new favorite Republican rival to taunt: Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.
But Mr. Rubio is proving capable of giving it back. And Mr. Trump also discovered on Friday that some conservatives do not respond as kindly when the insults are directed toward Mr. Rubio, who is not viewed with the sort of suspicion that Mr. Bush engenders among hard-line activists.
“You have this clown, Marco Rubio,” Mr. Trump began, in a speech to the Family Research Council’s Values Voter Summit here. “And I’ve been so nice to him.”
Before he could go further, though, the audience of social conservatives let out a cascade of boos.
Mr. Trump had brought a Bible with him on stage, but he is not a natural fit for movement conservatives, particularly the born-again Christians who are involved in politics chiefly because of their faith and attend conferences such as this.
He quickly turned to a safer line of attack, recalling that Mr. Rubio had been a leader in the push to provide a pathway to citizenship for illegal immigrants before he abandoned that legislative effort. “If you believe in something, you have to be true to yourself,” said Mr. Trump, calling Mr. Rubio “really weak on immigration.”
He added: “All of a sudden, he went down in the polls and he starts changing his tone.”
Mr. Rubio, trying out one of Mr. Trump’s favorite tactics by mocking him with feigned pity, shot back later in the day that Mr. Trump “had a tough week.”
“I think one of the statements he made was in front of an empty room in South Carolina,” Mr. Rubio said on Fox News. “He had a really bad debate. Carly Fiorina really embarrassed him.”
The back-and-forth was the latest signal of Mr. Rubio’s growing prominence in the Republican race.
Overshadowed for much of the year, Mr. Rubio has begun to inch up in the polls after a pair of solid debate performances. And after months of avoiding the fray with Mr. Trump, Mr. Rubio waded into it earlier this month, saying his inability to answer questions on national security was “very concerning.”
“If you don’t know the answer to these questions, then you are not going to be able to serve as commander and chief,” he said on CNN, referring to a radio interview in which Mr. Trump was unable to talk with much specificity about foreign policy matters.
That criticism prompted a wave of insults from Mr. Trump, who appears to have either tired of mocking Mr. Bush or determined that he no longer poses him the greatest threat among the primary contenders.
Speaking in North Charleston, S.C., on Wednesday — in a room that, as Mr. Rubio noted later, had scores of empty seats — Mr. Trump, 69, belittled Mr. Rubio, 44, for running up personal credit card debt.
“He’s got no money,” said Mr. Trump, who calls himself a billionaire 10 times over, “zero.”
He also declared that he had a superior head of hair and ridiculed Mr. Rubio for heavily perspiring during the Republican debate on Sept. 16.
The next day, Mr. Rubio responded by engaging in a bit of amateur psychology on a popular Kentucky sports talk radio show.
“He had a really bad debate performance last week,” Mr. Rubio said. “He’s not well informed on the issues. He really never talks about issues and can’t have more than a 10-second sound bite on any key issue. I think he’s kind of been exposed a little bit over the last seven days and he’s a touchy and insecure guy. So that’s how he reacts and people can see through it.”
Such talk, which Mr. Rubio continued in an interview on Fox News, set the stage for Mr. Trump’s trash-talking of Mr. Rubio at the Values Voter Summit on Friday morning.
Beforehand, though, word of House Speaker John A. Boehner’s abrupt resignation reached Mr. Trump as he made his way down a hotel staircase. But he showed surprisingly little interest in what was a political bombshell.
“Well it’s a big decision that he made, it’s a great decision,” Mr. Trump said. “I think so. I think it’s good for everybody. I think it’s time, he’s been there a long time. But I think it’s time.” (After further questions, Mr. Trump grasped for an escape hatch: “What do you think?” he asked his interviewer. “You tell me.”)
Approaching the ballroom where he would give his speech, Mr. Trump was swarmed by reporters who also wanted to ask him about Mr. Boehner. He repeated his answer — “It’s time” — and kept walking.
But then a reporter asked him about Mr. Rubio. Mr. Trump stopped and turned to the cameras.
“He doesn’t show up to vote for one thing,” said Mr. Trump, uncorking his now-familiar attack on Mr. Rubio’s record of absenteeism from Senate votes.
Asked if he thought Mr. Rubio was a “threat,” Mr. Trump said he did not.
“I think he’s a baby,” he said.
ON Thursday, when John Boehner grew weepy in the presence of the pope, I assumed that we were seeing the tears of a proud Catholic.
On Friday, when he announced that he’d be resigning as the speaker of the House of Representatives and leaving Congress at the end of next month, I revised that view.
I think he was crying, at least in part, for the ill fortunes and uncertain future of his pathologically self-destructive party. It’s something that should have all of us sobbing.
Boehner’s looming departure and the rabid right-wing forces that led to it are part of a longer story, developing for years now. His exodus was foreshadowed and even foreordained by the political demise of Eric Cantor, who served under him as the House majority leader until someone more conservative toppled him in a Republican primary in 2014.
One of our two major political parties is hostage to an extreme subgroup that won’t brook compromise, values theatrical protests over actual governing and is adolescent in its ideological vanity.
Of course Boehner couldn’t last: He’s an adult. And as Donald Trump’s perverse currency and a Republican nominating contest that’s often indistinguishable from a temper tantrum demonstrate, the qualities of maturity, steadiness and prudence aren’t in especially big favor right now with an animated, engaged and frighteningly influential segment of the Republican electorate.
I’m not saying that the Republican Party alone has wing nuts, disrupters, brats. Too often that’s the impression left by journalists ruing the G.O.P.’s unruly ways.
But Democrats over recent years haven’t been bedeviled by internal dissent and rendered dysfunctional to the extent that Republicans have. They’ve kept something of a lid on things and maintained a semblance of order.
Not so with Republicans, who have become the party of brinkmanship, the party of imminent credit defaults, the party of threatened shutdowns, the party that won’t pass a proper transportation bill, the party that is suddenly demonizing the Export-Import Bank, the party of “no,” the party of ire, the party that casts even someone as unquestionably conservative as John Boehner in the role of apostate, simply because he knows the difference between fights that can be won and those that can’t, between standing on principle and shooting yourself in the foot.
“He’s somebody who understands that in government — in governance — you don’t get 100 percent of what you want,” President Obama said on Friday at the White House, reflecting on the fresh news that Boehner was leaving. “But you have to work with people who you disagree with, sometimes strongly, in order to do the people’s business.” Obama and Boehner were hardly a study in “Kumbaya” cooperation, but Obama seemed to sense that the song sung by whoever follows Boehner will be sourer and more strident.
Brace for it.
What an odd end to an extraordinary week, and not just because the pope addressed Congress — a history-making first — and pleaded for a spirit of collaboration, common purpose and amity, only for Boehner’s announcement to underscore how fugitive and far away that spirit remains.
It was unusual, too, because if the Republicans hadn’t been imploding, the conversation might well have been about the Democrats’ woes, or rather Hillary Clinton’s problems.
On Thursday, a national poll showed Clinton losing to Carly Fiorina, Ben Carson and Jeb Bush — but not to Donald Trump — in hypothetical matchups. A New Hampshire poll gave Bernie Sanders a sizable lead over Clinton in that state.
And with reports that the F.B.I. was successfully retrieving emails that had supposedly been wiped from her private server, it became clearer than ever that this particular chapter isn’t close to over. It seems almost inevitable that a few of these emails will contradict statements Clinton has made about what was and wasn’t erased and why. I don’t see her “honest and trustworthy” numbers rising anytime soon.
The Republican Party should have a fantastic shot in 2016 not just at the White House but at total control, because they’ll easily keep their gerrymandered House majority and can hope to preserve their advantage in the Senate. It would be their dream come true.
But the party’s most bellicose politicians and most cantankerous voters are doing their puerile best to dash it. The chasm between them and the party’s calmer types endures, and becomes starker, foiling the best-laid plans of the sober-minded realists.

REPUBLICANS were supposed to streamline their nominating process, but they have 15 candidates, and that’s down from 17 a month ago. Republicans were supposed to adopt a friendlier face to immigrants and a warmer embrace of diversity, but immigrant bashing and fear of Muslims have been dominant themes of the primary contest so far.
Republicans were supposed to show themselves to be grown-ups, but the current leader of the pack, Trump, does a dead-on impersonation of a defensive, insecure schoolyard bully.
And he warps the whole field of candidates, drawing others into ludicrous spats, yanking them toward stances they might not take so easily, turning the spectacle into a farce.
Democrats rejoice, which is understandable but shortsighted. Yes, complete Republican control of Washington isn’t in their interests, spells trouble on several policy fronts and could create a Supreme Court we’d be haunted by for a long time.
But what just happened in the House of Representatives is in nobody’s interests, inasmuch as it portends squabbling and sclerosis as far as the eye can see, and inasmuch as it assures that the political conversation in this country isn’t going to ripen into anything more constructive and meaningful anytime soon.
During Boehner’s encounter with the pope, he reportedly agonized aloud over the neckwear he’d chosen, saying that he’d been inclined toward a blue tie but had listened to his staff and gone with green.
Pope Francis sought to reassure him, saying, through a translator, “Green is the color of hope.”
“We’ll need a lot of hope today,” Boehner responded.
I’m guessing that he had more on his mind than the pope’s imminent remarks to a fractious Congress.
I’m guessing that he was contemplating what would become of that Congress, and of his party, in the months to come.
Los Angeles — THE first time I met Delores Hughes, known as Mema, she was dressed in a purple muumuu, searching her kitchen for her false teeth. She warned me not to let her dog Tigger inside, because it would attack me. Dogfights were common at Mema’s house; her daughter had the stitches to prove it. By the end of the day, Mema was leading dozens of moonshine-drunk neighbors in a round of “Happy Birthday” — it was my birthday — and I thought to myself, not only have I just met my new favorite person, but this person is reality TV gold.
Mema speaks her mind, casually insults the people she loves most, and doesn’t care what anybody thinks about her. Just like another reality-television star: Donald Trump.
On the Reelz Network’s “Hollywood Hillbillies,” a fish-out-of-water reality-sitcom about a Southern family relocating to Los Angeles, Mema’s charming denigration of all things Hollywood has made her a cult star — the same way Mr. Trump’s denigration of contemporary politics and governance has made him a popular presidential candidate.
I’ve been working in reality television for 10 years, and I can tell you that Mr. Trump is exactly what we look for in our casting process. He’s uncomplicated and authentic: You can understand his entire personality from a 15-second sound bite. His brand is blunt self-promotion. His buildings are big and gold, shouting TRUMP in all caps. The Donald has absolute confidence even in his most wrongheaded opinions, and doubles down on every mistake, comfortable in the assurance that his wealth provides evidence for his intelligence. He doesn’t need to be good at his job — if he fails, he creates chaos, and chaos makes good TV.
He pulls in the numbers, too: The Season 1 finale of his long-running show, “The Apprentice,” drew 28 million viewers. Now the Republican debates featuring Mr. Trump are drawing record-breaking numbers: nearly 23 million viewers tuned in to the CNN debate this month; 24 million watched the Fox News debate in August.
As a reality TV professional, I would be lucky to strike gold like Donald Trump once or twice in a career. Gurney Productions found it with the Robertson clan on “Duck Dynasty.” You might watch a thousand casting tapes before you find a character half as watchable as Uncle Si of “Duck Dynasty” or Kim Kardashian or Flavor Flav. I can tell in 30 seconds of a Skype interview if a person is worthy of a show. I once talked to a fascinating young man who sells custom-armored vehicles to warlords in Africa; he was thoughtful, soft-spoken, conflicted about his work — dead-wrong for a reality show.
In the various guilty-pleasure/train-wreck formats of reality TV, development execs look for larger-than-life personalities who speak their mind and don’t shy away from conflict. Self-awareness is a liability. They reveal their character through conflict, and the bigger the character, the deeper the conflict, the better the show.
A few years ago, I worked on the WE TV series “Bridezillas,” a show that thrived on the conflict between a bride and anyone in her path. This subgenre of reality TV — terrible people behaving badly — works because friction is baked into the format. At the very least, I could usually count on drunken bridesmaids brawling over the tossed bouquet. Political campaigns have their conflict, too, but it’s often too nuanced for a broad audience. Mr. Trump has cut through all that. His ad hominem insults have become his signature move. Even when he professes to be holding back — as when he said of Senator Rand Paul, “I never attacked him on his looks” — he still gets a jab in there somewhere: “Believe me, there is plenty of subject matter.”
Donald Trump is the presidential candidate that reality TV made. An electorate trained in voting contestants on and off shows like “American Idol” wants to keep him around because he makes things interesting. Instead of any plausible policy stance, Mr. Trump has built his campaign around an entertaining TV persona.
Reality television has always been fixated on the trappings of wealth, from the Real Housewives to the Kardashians and Vanderpumps. In that sense, it’s no different from any popular entertainment, from 19th-century novels to “Dynasty.” We like stories about the rich for a lot of reasons — they live out our aspirations, and their mistakes and foibles shrink the gulf between their lives and ours. In a sense, Mr. Trump’s immersion in the medium of reality TV normalizes his wealth. He connects with an audience for whom he represents the sort of rich guy they would be if they had the money.
Even if Mr. Trump’s poll numbers do begin to dwindle as the G.O.P. electorate gets to know him better, he’ll continue to draw an audience. In fact, Mr. Trump may be even more entertaining as an underdog, when he’ll have even less incentive to play nice.
That’s because reality shows thrive on high stakes, and there’s nothing higher than leadership of the No. 1 country in the world. Nobody tunes in to “Deadliest Catch” to watch a routine fishing trip — we want to feel that the boat could capsize at any moment and four tons of king crabs could crush the greenhorn beneath their writhing weight.
So, no surprise: Mr. Trump rates. Love him or hate him, he makes us feel as if the future of our country is teetering on the precipice. It might be entertaining to watch our country implode under his leadership, but one of the great pleasures of reality television is being able to turn it off when you’ve had enough.
DONALD TRUMP’S high poll numbers among evangelicals have preoccupied the media for months. But the most interesting thing about his Christian fans is not their willingness to overlook the sins of a casino playboy. Evangelicals happily voted for a divorced man of uncertain faith once before: Ronald Reagan. What is most striking is that Mr. Trump’s campaign has exposed a rift within evangelicalism — a split between those calling for culture war as usual and those who say Christians must adjust to life as a minority in American Babylon.
Some evangelical leaders are content to follow old models. They promise, as Jerry Falwell and his colleagues in the Moral Majority once did, that Christians are destined to lead the nation in “a moral and conservative revolution.” David Barton, the activist and pseudo-historian who helped vandalize Texas textbook guidelines, promises that “America can reclaim greatness” if its citizens recover their Christian heritage. He now runs a super PAC backing Ted Cruz, but his pledge echoes Mr. Trump’s vow to “make America great again” — a slogan that resonates with evangelical voters who feel the country slipping out of their grip.
Yet some evangelical elites are rebelling against this vision. They have not shifted leftward, but they disown both the legacy of the Moral Majority and the populist demagogy of Mr. Trump in favor of a softer, more sophisticated approach to activism. They note the shrinking ranks of American Christianity but say that evangelicals shouldn’t kick and scream. They should embrace their new role as a moral minority instead.
“We don’t see ourselves as a cultural majority,” Russell Moore, the president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission of the Southern Baptist Convention, told me. “Change doesn’t come from a position of power, but a position of witness.” Dr. Moore assured me that when he brings this message to churches around the country, “most are responding well because they see what’s happening in the culture.” But he is disappointed that so many evangelicals favor Mr. Trump.
How do you convince evangelicals to temper their political ambitions? You teach them to rethink their own identity. “Our end goal is not a Christian America, either of the made-up past or the hoped-for future,” Dr. Moore writes in “Onward,” his manifesto for the moral minority. “Our end goal is the kingdom of Christ.” He and his allies are trying to persuade evangelicals that the Gospel thrives when being a Christian is a difficult, countercultural position.
These leaders are rejecting the aggressive style and narrow agenda of activists of the old Christian right without revising their essential objections to modernity. David Platt, a megachurch pastor who recently took over the leadership of the Southern Baptist International Mission Board, has a crew cut and the conscientious manner of an Eagle Scout. But he has warned evangelicals that too many of them follow “a nice, middle-class, American Jesus.”
In books titled “Radical” and “Counter Culture,” Dr. Platt urges evangelicals to reject Christian nationalism, “cap” their materialistic lifestyles and give more to charity. He also offers an “unapologetic yet winsome call” to resist the temptation to forsake grueling crusades, like the fight against abortion, for less controversial causes, like opposing human trafficking. “We’ve chosen to be passionate about issues that have been the least costly to us,” he told me. “Countering culture” means recognizing the ways American Christians have mistaken both material and social comfort for spiritual rewards.
Who are the heroes of these countercultural warriors? They have assembled a selective genealogy that omits evangelicals who once used the language of martyrdom and resistance to defend white supremacy. They trace their heritage from Paul and the Apostles (contemporary America reminds Dr. Platt of the fleshpots of first-century Corinth, “a city filled with sexual immorality”) to the Christian reformers of the 18th and 19th centuries, especially William Wilberforce, the evangelical politician who helped end slavery in the British Empire.
“Wilberforce abolished slavery over many years by working with Christians in different industries,” said Gabe Lyons, who runs a conference and media organization called Q, a Christian version of TED (the Q stands for “Question”). “We want to be a counterculture for the common good,” he said. “A counterculture can be antagonistic, lobbing grenades, but that’s not how Christians should be engaging.”
When these evangelical leaders scan recent history for role models, they choose Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the German theologian who died in 1945 at the hands of the Nazis. “A lot of good Germans looked the other way,” said Eric Metaxas, a Christian author who has written popular biographies of both Wilberforce and Bonhoeffer. German Christians “didn’t see that sirens need to go off when the state — any state — starts crossing a line, interfering with the freedom of churches.”
Scholars might raise an eyebrow at comparing the Obama administration’s contraception mandate to the policies of Nazi Germany, but Mr. Metaxas stands by the analogy. Evangelicals “have God-given freedoms to do so much,” he told me. “But the window is closing. Right now we have tremendous freedoms, and we need to use them, to be a loud, humble, bold, gracious, winsome voice.”
Conservative evangelicals cherish the word “winsome.” They use it frequently in sermons, books and blogs. (One translation of Colossians 4:6 reads: “Your speech should always be winsome, seasoned with salt.”) It is the key to their political strategy, a signal that they are not the barefoot bumpkins whom H. L. Mencken mocked, nor foaming white supremacists, but a new generation of educated, genteel activists — who still retain their saltiness.
“Winsomeness” is an aesthetic and an ethos, a cheerful and worldly self-presentation meant to disarm secular opponents. Mr. Metaxas sports tortoiseshell glasses, well-cut suits and a Yale degree. Mr. Lyons’s organization, with podcasts and conferences packed with talks on subjects like “Redemptive Entrepreneurism” and “Going Glocal,” is the epitome of this combination of glossy sophistication and orthodoxy.
Yet many evangelical voters don’t seem to want a gracious, cultured leader or a future of subtle minority influence. “Winsome” is certainly not the first word that Mr. Trump brings to mind.
Mr. Trump’s claim that illegal Mexican immigrants are “rapists,” and his insistence that “we have to be less politically correct,” have vexed evangelical leaders, many of whom favor the liberalization of immigration policy. His tirades remind some observers not of Wilberforce’s “silvery cadence,” but of the fulminations of George Wallace, the hot-tempered segregationist.
Mr. Trump sees himself as a prophet, too, but he is not interested in minority status. “The silent majority is back, and we’re going to take our country back,” he told a crowd in Phoenix in July. Jeremiah Johnson, a minister in Florida, wrote in the Christian magazine Charisma that God told him that “Trump shall become My trumpet to the American people.” Mr. Trump, he added, “does not fear man nor will he allow deception and lies to go unnoticed.”
After all, a prophet can’t be courteous and good-humored all the time. “Being winsome has its limits,” Rob Schwarzwalder of the Family Research Council wrote during the debate over Indiana’s bill on religious freedom last spring. Mr. Trump’s popularity among the evangelical rank and file suggests that even if his Christian critics can offer appealing models for a new “moral minority,” they may have hit a political dead end. On the campaign trail, anger and xenophobia play better than repentance and grace.
Thirty-one years ago, the estimable William E. Geist — not to be confused with his son Willie, of “Morning Joe” and “Today” show fame — spent a day or so following Donald Trump around New York and wrote about it in a memorable New York Times Magazine cover story. Mr. Geist’s tale has a certain familiar quality to it. “Spending a day with Donald Trump is like driving a Ferrari without the windshield,” he wrote. “It’s exhilarating; he gets a few bugs in his teeth.”
One of the bugs involves his academic record at the prestigious Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Another involves his net worth. Both issues are central to his identity as a successful businessman and in both cases he has been less than fully transparent.
Mr. Trump transferred to Wharton after two years at Fordham University in the Bronx, and he graduated in 1968 with an undergraduate degree in economics. Mr. Trump is understandably proud of graduating from Wharton, and the presidential candidate talks about it all the time.
“I went to the Wharton School of Finance,” he said in a July 11 speech in Phoenix. “I’m, like, a really smart person.” On Aug. 16, he told Chuck Todd, on “Meet the Press,” about the school: It’s “probably the hardest there is to get into,” and, “Some of the great business minds in the world have gone to Wharton.”
Mr. Geist pointed out that “just about every profile ever written” about Mr. Trump — including stories in The New York Times in 1973 and 1976 — journalists say that he graduated first in his class at Wharton. “Although the school refused comment, the commencement program from 1968 does not list him as graduating with honors of any kind,” Mr. Geist wrote.
In August, The Daily Pennsylvanian, the University of Pennsylvania newspaper, tried to get to the bottom of whether Mr. Trump did in fact graduate first in his class at Wharton. The paper cited a 1985 Trump biography, by Jerome Tuccille, that said Mr. Trump was not an honor student and “spent a lot of time on outside business activities.” Gwenda Blair, another Trump biographer, wrote that he was able to get into Wharton only because a “friendly” admissions officer knew his older brother, Fred Trump Jr., and did him a favor. A classmate of Mr. Trump’s, Steven Perelman, told the paper, “He was not in any kind of leadership. I certainly doubt he was the smartest guy in the class.” Unless Mr. Trump releases to the public his Wharton transcripts — which he has declined to do — we won’t know for sure, of course, whether he was an all-star at Wharton or not.
Then there is the question of his wealth. In 2006, Mr. Trump sued the writer Timothy L. O’Brien and his publisher, Warner Books, for libel because he had written in an October 2005 New York Times article and in his book, “TrumpNation: The Art of Being Donald,” that Mr. Trump’s net worth was far less than the $4 billion to $6 billion he was claiming back then.
Mr. O’Brien put Mr. Trump’s net worth at $150 million to $250 million. Mr. Trump objected to the characterization of his wealth as so minuscule. He wanted $5 billion in damages. In July 2009, a judge in southern New Jersey dismissed the case, finding that Mr. O’Brien did not act with reckless disregard for the truth. The court did not make any determination about Mr. Trump’s wealth. Mr. Trump appealed. In September 2011, he lost the appeal, although he told me a few years ago in an interview that he still believed that Mr. O’Brien had libeled him and that the libel laws were unfair to public figures like him. “Essentially, the judge just said, ‘Trump is too famous,’” he told me. “‘He’s so famous that you’re allowed to say anything you want about him.’ Well, I disagree with that.”
Mr. Trump now puts his net worth at $10 billion. But in a deposition he gave in 2007 in connection with the O’Brien lawsuit, it was clear that Mr. Trump gave himself a lot of latitude in calculating his wealth. Mr. Trump explained that he tries to be “truthful” about his net worth, but then he acknowledged: “My net worth fluctuates, and it goes up and down with markets and with attitudes and with feelings — even my own feelings — but I try,” he said, adding that he was no different from “a politician running for office. You always put the best foot forward. So you don’t want to say negative things.”
He also demonstrated a surprising lack of knowledge about a basic fundamental principle of corporate finance — called net present value — that bankers and traders the world over use to value assets or companies, especially private ones like Mr. Trump’s for which there are no publicly traded stocks. Whether Mr. Trump understood this basic valuation concept arose in the context of questions about how he valued his golf courses. (Net present value, by the way, compares the value of receiving a dollar today with the value of receiving a dollar in the future, taking into account a variety of risk factors.)
The deposition wasn’t a finance exam and not every successful businessman has to be conversant in the arcane terms of the discipline.
But Wharton teaches the concept of net present value in its introductory finance courses. A top Wharton graduate who excelled in finance would probably remember that.
Now that Mr. Trump is a front-runner in the race for the Republican presidential nomination, I was unable to talk to him directly about how he gets to his $10 billion net worth calculation. But a spokeswoman answered some of my questions on Wednesday. She said she couldn’t speak to his knowledge of net present value in 2007, but she said he knew the meaning of it now “as anyone would.” She put his 2014 income at $600 million, although his Federal Election Commission form says it was $362 million. (He told Rolling Stone magazine a few weeks ago that he makes “between $400 and $600 million a year.”)
I asked her to share with me the Trump Organization’s five-year financial projections so that I could begin to calculate how to value Mr. Trump’s business. His spokeswoman said she doubted he would agree to share those projections with me, although on Thursday morning she sent me a one-page document showing his net worth at $8.7 billion as of June 2014. His most valuable asset on this document was his “brand,” at $3.3 billion. She did not provide any backup to these calculations, and, of course, a balance sheet at a point in time is not the same as five-year projections that bankers use to value private companies such as Mr. Trump’s. She also did not respond to later attempts to get clarity on whether Mr. Trump was first in his class at Wharton.
C’mon Mr. Trump, be a sport. Since you’ve boasted so openly about being so rich and so smart, reconsider on both counts. What’s the harm in letting us see those Wharton grades and sharing your company’s projections so we can begin to figure out if your $10 billion net worth is accurate? It’s a teachable moment.
Donald Trump’s tax plan, released Monday, does not live up to the populist language he has offered on taxes all summer.
When talking about taxes in this campaign, Donald Trump has often sounded like a different kind of Republican. He says he will take on “the hedge fund guys” and their carried interest loophole. He thinks it’s “outrageous” how little tax some multimillionaires pay. But his plan calls for major tax cuts not just for the middle class but also for the richest Americans — even the hedge fund managers. And despite his campaign’s assurances that the plan is “fiscally responsible,” it would grow budget deficits by trillions of dollars over a decade.
You could call Mr. Trump’s plan a higher-energy version of the tax plan Jeb Bush announced earlier this month: similar in structure, but with lower rates and wider tax brackets, meaning individual taxpayers would pay even less than under Mr. Bush, and the government would lose even more tax revenue.
Currently, the top income tax rate for regular income is 39.6 percent. Mr. Trump would cut that rate to 25 percent, the lowest level since 1931. He’d cut maximum rates on capital gains and dividends to 20 percent from 23.8 percent. He’d cut the corporate tax rate to 15 percent, and also offer a special tax rate of 15 percent to business owners — less than half what they may pay under today’s rules. He’d abolish the estate tax entirely.
Mr. Trump says he’d pay for those tax rate reductions by “reducing or eliminating most deductions and loopholes available to the very rich.” But in truth, rich people already pay tax on most of their income, so there’s less revenue available from cutting rich people’s tax breaks than Mr. Trump and many voters believe.
In 2013, taxpayers earning between $500,000 and $10 million deducted or exempted an average of 12 percent of their income from tax; for those earning more than $10 million, the figure was 16 percent. If those deductions were abolished entirely (and Mr. Trump proposes only to reduce them), that would not come close to paying for a cut in the top tax rate from 39.6 percent to 25 percent, which is a relative reduction of 37 percent.
Mr. Trump has also proposed taxing investment returns related to life insurance that currently don’t appear on tax returns at all. This would raise more revenue than you might expect, perhaps $20 billion a year at Mr. Trump’s proposed tax rates, but still wouldn’t be enough to offset the high-end rate cuts.
Even the hedge fund managers Mr. Trump has railed against on the stump would get a tax cut under his plan. The usual fee structure for a hedge fund is called “2-and-20”: a flat management fee (often 2 percent) on all assets, plus a performance fee (often 20 percent) on profits above a set threshold. Currently, the management fee is taxed at ordinary rates up to 39.6 percent, while the performance fee enjoys a preferential rate of 23.8 percent. Under Mr. Trump’s plan, all this income would be taxed at a maximum of 25 percent. The performance fee would be subject to a small tax increase, but that effect would be dwarfed by the large tax cut on ordinary management fees.
Another large, though less-noticed, tax cut in Mr. Trump’s plan is a reduction in the maximum tax rate on “pass-through income” to 15 percent; currently, this income is taxed at the same rates as wage income, up to 39.6 percent.
Pass-through income is often described as “small-business income,” but that term can be misleading. Small-business owners can use corporate structures, like limited liability companies, that are not taxed. Instead, the income from these companies is passed through to their individual owners, who then pay tax on their individual income tax returns. Those small-business owners would enjoy this tax reduction from Mr. Trump, but so would the owners of large businesses that may also choose to use these same ownership structures. The tax break would also go to independent contractors like me: The New York Times pays me a salary, but when I do work for other organizations, I treat the payments as small-business income, and I’d get to use the 15 percent rate proposed by Mr. Trump.
In addition to offering huge tax cuts to the rich and to business owners (including me!), Mr. Trump would offer huge tax cuts for the middle and upper-middle class. Married couples would pay no tax on their first $50,000 of income and just 10 percent on the next $50,000. A married couple with no children earning $100,000 and taking the standard deduction would pay $11,437 in income tax under today’s rules; under Mr. Trump’s plan, they would pay just $5,000, a tax cut of 56 percent. Many people with low-to-moderate incomes would see their income tax bills reduced to zero, increasing the share of the population that pays no income tax at all.
He’d also offer huge tax breaks to corporations, which would pay 15 percent, down from a current rate of 35 percent. Corporate tax is the main place where his plan departs from Republican orthodoxy, but in a fairly arcane way. Mr. Trump would tax the worldwide income of American corporations at the time it is earned. Currently, American companies may delay tax on foreign profits until they return those profits to the United States. Many Republicans (including Jeb Bush) would move in the other direction and forgo tax on foreign income altogether, arguing that worldwide taxation makes it harder for American companies to compete abroad.
By demanding immediate tax on foreign profits, Mr. Trump’s plan would disfavor American companies that locate their businesses abroad, which is consistent with his broader theme of pushing companies to return factories and jobs to the United States. However, because he would cut the corporate income tax rate so steeply, the effects of immediate worldwide corporate taxation would be limited: Companies get a credit for tax paid to other countries, so Mr. Trump’s tax would apply only on foreign profits that were not subject to tax by a foreign country at a rate of at least 15 percent. This would mostly affect income earned in tax havens, as most major countries have corporate income tax rates of more than 15 percent.
In other words, Mr. Trump’s worldwide tax plan would have no effect on Ford’s choice to make cars in Mexico, so long as they’re paying at least 15 percent in tax to Mexico on their Mexican activities.
A document from the Trump campaign says all these tax cuts would be “fully paid for” by the elimination of deductions and by a one-time tax on foreign profits of American firms held abroad. That math simply does not add up: As discussed above, rich people do not currently take enough tax deductions to offset the tax rate cuts Mr. Trump proposes, and the one-time foreign profits tax might raise $250 billion, not close to the trillions of revenue that would be lost through tax rate cuts.
At a news conference Monday, Mr. Trump offered another way his tax plan would pay for itself: economic growth, perhaps as fast as 6 percent a year, again a higher-energy estimate than the 4 percent Mr. Bush has proposed. But there is no evidence to support the idea that such rapid growth can be produced through tax cuts.
As part of his ongoing effort to make a mockery of the American political process, Donald Trump released his tax plan on Monday morning. This is the third official policy position he has laid out in the three and a half months he’s been running for president.
His opening salvo, of course, was his absurd proposal to round up the 11 million illegal immigrants living in this country and deport them, en masse, while also building an impenetrable wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. “It’ll actually be a wall that will look good,” he actually told Scott Pelley on “60 Minutes” on Sunday night.
His second position paper, which hasn’t gotten nearly the attention it deserves, is a no-holds-barred defense of the Second Amendment that the National Rifle Association could have written. Among other things, Trump says that we don’t need expanded background checks, and that concealed carry permits — he has one himself, in case you were wondering — should be valid in all 50 states, just like a driver’s license.
His tax plan, at least, is not completely irrational. Then again, “a broken clock is right twice a day,” as Edward Kleinbard, a law professor and tax expert at the University of Southern California’s Gould School of Law, puts it.
Kleinbard told me he likes the fact that Trump wants to tax profits that companies earn abroad at the time they are earned, just like domestic profits. That would help end the practice of American companies parking their profits overseas, because they are now taxed only upon repatriation. (Trump also wants to impose a one-time tax on those overseas profits, which would raise some $200 billion.)
A second tax expert I spoke to, Robert Willens, noted that Trump’s plan would end corporate “inversions,” whereby companies list an overseas “headquarters” to take advantage of another country’s lower tax rate. The reason, though, is that Trump’s proposed 15 percent corporate tax rate is so low that companies wouldn’t need to leave to enjoy drastically lower taxes.
Trump says his plan will also prevent American companies from moving jobs overseas. But it won’t. Companies might move their headquarters back to the U.S., but the main job sources — factories — will remain in countries that have lower labor costs, not lower taxes. And neither Trump nor anyone else running for president can fix that.
What is irrational is Trump’s belief that he can cut corporate taxes from 35 to 15 percent, can cut the top income tax rate from 39.6 to 25 percent, can allow millions of additional Americans to go untaxed completely (they’ll be able to fill out a form that says “I win”), can abolish the estate tax and can lower the maximum capital gains tax from 23.8 percent to 20 percent, and still be “revenue neutral.”
Where will the revenue come from to make up for those tax cuts? It’s not going to come from whacking the “hedge fund guys,” as he likes to call them. Though Trump proposes to end their “carried interest” tax break, his new maximum individual rate of 25 percent means their tax burden would barely budge. And though he claims he will get rid of various unspecified deductions, he didn’t dare touch the one individual deduction that matters: the mortgage interest deduction. Somebody must have told him that that would cost him in the polls.
Like almost everything else about the Trump campaign, his tax plan is hard to take seriously. (To be fair, most of the tax plans put forth by his Republican rivals are hard to take seriously.) During the “60 Minutes” interview, Trump told Pelley that he would force the Chinese to “do something” about North Korea’s nuclear program — while also preventing them from devaluing their currency! — that he would get rid of Obamacare — while instituting universal coverage! — and that he was on more magazine covers than “almost any supermodel.”
You could see Pelley struggling to keep a straight face.
I wonder, in fact, whether even now Trump is a serious candidate, or whether this is all a giant publicity ploy. Once a real developer, Trump is largely a licenser today; the more famous he becomes, the more he can charge to slap his name on buildings or perfume or men’s suits.
I’m not alone in wondering this, of course. Several Republican consultants I spoke to openly questioned whether Trump is in it for the long haul. “You would see him spending a lot more money if he were putting together a true national infrastructure,” said Rick Wilson, a Republican strategist.
There’s one other thing. All his life, Trump has had a deep need to be perceived as a “winner.” He always has to be perceived coming out on top. That’s why, ultimately, I don’t think he’ll ever put himself at the mercy of actual voters in a primary. To do so is to risk losing. And everyone will know it.
He’ll be out before Iowa. You read it here first.
‘I don’t worry about anything,’’ Donald J. Trump told me aboard his 757 as we were flying to the recent Republican debate at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, Calif. He was dividing his attention between the brick-size slice of red-velvet cake he was annihilating and the CNN commentator on the 57-inch television who at that moment was talking about Trump, as most commentators have been at pretty much every moment for the last three months. The commentator, Dylan Byers, was saying that Trump now ran the risk of ‘‘jumping the shark’’ because voters were becoming so familiar with his act. ‘‘Nah,’’ Trump said, smirking at the screen. As the real estate and reality-­show tycoon sees things, this is all win-win for him. Peggy Noonan of The Wall Street Journal wrote something to this effect recently, Trump told me, explaining that even if he loses, ‘‘he goes back to being Donald Trump, but even bigger.’’
The Trump campaign may be a win-win for Trump, but it is a monstrous dilemma for a lot of other people. It is a dilemma for the Republican Party and a dilemma for the people Trump is running against. They would love to dismiss him as a sideshow and declare his shark jumped, except he keeps dominating the campaign and the conversation, and they have no clue whether to engage, attack, ignore or suck up in response. It is a dilemma for the elected leaders, campaign strategists, credentialed pundits and assorted parasites of the ‘‘establishment.’’ They have a certain set of expectations, unwritten rules and ways of doing things that Trump keeps flouting in the most indelicate of ways. And, of course, it is a dilemma for the media, who fear abetting a circus. This is why The Huffington Post announced in July that it would publish stories about Trump only in its ‘‘entertainment’’ section, so that when it all ended, as it surely would soon, the website could remain pristine and on the side of the high-minded. A similar sort of worry prevented me from writing about Trump throughout his rise this summer. Initially, I dismissed him as a nativist clown, a chief perpetrator of the false notion that President Obama was not born in the United States — the ‘‘birther’’ movement. And I was, of course, way too incredibly serious and high-­minded to ever sully myself by getting so close to Donald Trump.
I initially doubted that he would even run. I assumed that his serial and public flirtations with the idea over several election cycles were just another facet of his existential publicity sustenance. I figured that even if Trump did run, his conspiracy-­mongering, reality-­show orientations and garish tabloid sensibilities would make him unacceptable to the polite company of American politics and mainstream media. It would render him a fringe player. So I decided not to write about him, and I felt proud and honorable about my decision.
In June, Trump, who is now 69, actually declared that he would run for president. The big crowds, soaring poll numbers and magazine covers started a few weeks later, and I began to wonder if I had been too rash in disregarding him. The problem was that having decided not to write about him, I couldn’t start now. What were the chances that he would still be around by the time I was done? He kept touching supposed third rails — calling illegal immigrants rapists and criminals in his announcement speech, questioning whether John McCain was really a war hero (‘‘I like people who weren’t captured’’) and seeming to suggest that a moderator of the first Republican debate, Megyn Kelly of Fox News, asked him uncomfortable questions because she was menstruating.
And yet his lead in the polls kept growing. He was impolite company personified, and many Republican voters were absolutely loving him for that. They seemed to be saying en masse that even if Trump could be crass and offensive at times (or, in his case, on message), could he possibly be any worse than what politics in general had become?
I encountered the phenomenon up close at the first Republican debate, on Aug. 6 in Cleveland. I positioned myself in the post-­debate ‘‘spin room,’’ the area where campaign surrogates spew their customized nonsense to media types. The candidates themselves almost never venture in. But suddenly, at the end of the night, a literal stampede was rumbling toward a far corner of the room, where Trump had crashed this assembly of polite company. I have seen many press scrums, but never like this. It was scary. People were tripping, falling and being shoved out of the way. Cameras were dropped. What I saw was polite routines and traditions breaking down as the American political order reoriented itself around a new center of gravity. As the shouts and cries intensified, I found myself being drawn toward the bedlam.
In the months since, Trump has grown into a kind of one-man chaos theory at the center of a primary campaign in disarray. The solemn party leaders desperately want him to go away; the consultant and donor class feel irrelevant (because they largely are to Trump); even Fox News, with which he episodically feuds, seems rattled. At the first sign that, after an uninspired performance in the second debate, Trump’s poll numbers were stalled, pundits on the left and the right rushed to declare yet another ‘‘beginning of the end’’ for Trump. And still he leads in every poll, and it’s October, and it keeps going. Where does this end? I kept asking Trump this as we sat around his office and rode around in limousines and airplanes. ‘‘I have no idea,’’ he always said, sometimes modifying the noun with a big, unclassy profanity. ‘‘But I’m here now. And it’s beautiful.’’
It was early September when we met for the first time in his 26th-floor office in Trump Tower. When I walked in, Trump had the legendary college basketball coach Bobby Knight paying homage to him over speaker­phone. Knight, who had never met Trump, apparently called him out of the blue to offer his support. I was slightly dubious about how ‘‘out of the blue’’ this really was, given how perfectly it was timed to my arrival, but Knight delivered a stirring tribute regardless. ‘‘No one has accomplished more than Mr. Trump has,’’ Knight raved after Trump informed him that a reporter was in the room. Trump nodded and motioned to the ­phone and made sure I had my recorder running. ‘‘What a great honor, man,’’ Trump said. ‘‘I will talk to you soon, and I won’t forget that you called. Thanks, Bobby.’’
Trump is 6-foot-3 and looks taller in person than you might expect, in part because he is all head, hair and flattened, squinty expressions behind the tables and lecterns where we typically experience him. He was standing behind a desk cluttered with papers, piles of recent magazines with him on the cover and a Trump bobblehead doll. ‘‘You ever see guys with nothing on their desk?’’ he said by way of explaining his messy one. ‘‘They always fail. I don’t know what it is. I’ve seen it for years.’’
Trump motioned to the gallery of magazine covers on the wall next to him, which included an issue of Playboy from 1990 (‘‘And that’s when it was really Playboy’’) and another of Trump on the front of The New York Times Magazine in 1984. ‘‘I’ve had much more than 15 minutes of fame, that’s for sure,’’ he said. Trump can be hyper-­solicitous of the press. His orbit is largely free of handlers and is very much his own production, down to his tweets — which he types or dictates himself. I asked Trump if his campaign conducted focus groups. I knew what his answer would be but asked anyway. ‘‘I do focus groups,’’ he said, pressing both thumbs against his forehead, ‘‘right here.’’
Getting close to Trump is nothing like the teeth-­pulling exercise that it can be to get any meaningful exposure to a candidate like, say, Hillary Clinton. This is a seductive departure in general for political reporters accustomed to being ignored, patronized and offered sound bites to a point of lobotomy by typical politicians and the human straitjackets that surround them. In general, Trump understands and appreciates that reporters like to be given the time of day. It’s symbiotic in his case because he does in fact pay obsessive attention to what is said and written and tweeted about him. Trump is always saying that so-and-so TV pundit ‘‘spoke very nicely’’ about him on some morning show and that some other writer ‘‘who used to kill me’’ has now come around to ‘‘loving me.’’ There is a ‘‘Truman Show’’ aspect to this, except Trump is the director — continually selling, narrating and spinning his story while he lives it.
With me, Trump toggled often between on and off the record, one of which seemed only marginally more sensitive than the other, but with enough difference to indicate that he is capable of calculating from word to word and knowing where certain lines are. At one point, Trump declared himself to be ‘‘semi off the record’’ (it wasn’t that interesting, or even semi-­interesting). He kept browbeating me to ‘‘write fairly’’ about him, meaning that I should do a full and proper rendering of the Trump Phenomenon — the full degree to which it is, as he so often says, yooooge. Otherwise it would be ‘‘disgusting,’’ as it was recently when a reporter described a ‘‘smattering of applause’’ that he received at an event in Iowa, when in fact it was much more than a ‘‘smattering’’ — trust him. ‘‘I don’t do smatterings,’’ he said, spitting out the word.
As I surveyed the magazine covers on the wall and endured his running boasts, I wondered aloud whether Americans might not prefer a more humble brand of chief executive, feigned or otherwise. ‘‘Nope,’’ he sneered. ‘‘They want success. They wanted humility in the past. They wanted a nice person’’ (for the record, he added, ‘‘I am a nice person’’). But what they really want is someone who can win, as Trump always does. ‘‘We’re going to have so many victories, you will be bored of winning.’’
I asked whether he had ever experienced self-doubt. The question seemed to catch Trump off guard, and he flashed a split second of, if not vulnerability, maybe non­swagger. ‘‘Yes, I think more than people would think,’’ he told me. When? ‘‘I don’t want to talk about it.’’ He shrug-­smirked. ‘‘Because, you know — probably more than people would think. I understand how life can go. Things can happen.’’ This was a rare moment when Trump’s voice trailed off, even slightly. He then handed me a sheet of new polling data that someone had put on his desk. ‘‘Beautiful numbers,’’ he said, inviting me to take them with me.
A curious feature of the mob scene that has surrounded Trump at most public events since August is that people keep handing him money to sign. I first witnessed this on Sept. 11, a day of national mourning. Trump was working his way through the lobby of Rockefeller Center after taping an appearance on ‘‘The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon,’’ and a boisterous crowd had been waiting for him. One building security guard described the commotion to me as ‘‘Justin Bieber level.’’ It consisted heavily of tourists and foreign visitors, many of them young. There were the usual paparazzi, and some shouted questions. But what struck me about this Trumpus Ruckus were the dollar bills. Trump signed one after another, and the recipients clutched and cherished them like winning lottery tickets. ‘‘Look, a hundred-­dollar bill?’’ Trump said, showing me a C-note that a woman from Long Island had handed him to sign. You don’t often see politicians signing money. If asked, some will refuse — I’ve seen Hillary Clinton do this — possibly because it is technically illegal to deface currency. But it is a fitting souvenir from one of the high priests of the nation’s secular religion: aspirational consumerism. Reagan was a capitalist and a free-­market icon, but conspicuous consumption (as people used to call it) was a benefit of American freedom and prosperity, not a national objective or a virtue in itself. Not so much with Trump, who of course owns many beautiful, classy things. There is a certain prosperity-­theology aspect to Trump’s appeal, the idea that you follow a minister because he is rich and has his own plane and implicitly and sometimes explicitly promises that you, too, will be rich.
And yet, throughout his rise, Trump has been labeled a ‘‘populist.’’ I had always equated populism with economic uprisings by the disenfranchised against the privileged. Trump, who grew up in Queens as a son of a wealthy real estate developer, promotes his astronomical wealth, elite academic credentials and ‘‘good genes’’ (‘‘my uncle was a professor at M.I.T., he was the smartest guy up there’’). He is, presumably, the first ‘‘populist’’ presidential candidate to mention his degree from Wharton at a campaign rally in Alabama. Certainly, there have been other rich-guy populists, like Ross Perot. And previous populist movements have, like Trump’s, been driven in part by stoking fear of ‘‘the other’’ (in Trump’s case, his bare-knuckled attacks on the undocumented immigrants who have made the United States ‘‘a dumping ground for the rest of the world’’).
But while populism is often associated with grass-roots movements, Trump’s brand of it flows not from the ground up, as did Obama’s campaign in 2008 or even the Tea Party movement in subsequent years. Rather, Trump’s is pure media populism, a cult of personality whose following has been built over decades. The popularity of Trump’s NBC reality franchise, ‘‘The Apprentice,’’ for instance, made him a potent cultural persona; the power of that persona (the frowning, pitiless boss) might actually outweigh the customary strategic imperatives (message discipline, donor bases) that the political wiseguys like to get all aroused about. In large measure, the core of Trump’s phenomenon is his celebrity itself, which, in today’s America, is in fact as populist as it gets.
Out on the sidewalk of Rockefeller Center, the horde for Trump was edgier and included several protesters. There were chants (‘‘Trump’s a racist’’), taunts (‘‘Donald, you want to deport me?’’) and placards (‘‘You’re not hired’’). A few protesters moved in and shouted within a few feet of Trump as he made his way into the back of his stretch limo for the short drive back to his tower. Seated serenely, he betrayed no sense whatsoever that he had just fled a tumultuous and slightly menacing situation to find sanctuary behind tinted glass. ‘‘There’s something happening here,’’ he told me.
There was pounding on the side of the vehicle as we pulled away. Hope Hicks, Trump’s 26-year-old publicist and a former Ralph Lauren model, sat opposite us; next to her, Corey Lewandowski, Trump’s wiry wisp of a buzz-cut campaign manager, was buried deep in his iPhone. After a few seconds in the quiet of his limo, Trump suddenly seemed deprived of oxygen. He kept opening the window to inhale more pandemonium and sign more magazine covers of himself. ‘‘Donald! Selfie!’’ a woman yelled and stuck her head in. Trump obliged before sealing the window again.
‘‘Our country needs to be glamorized,’’ Trump said, turning to me. Hicks interjected that Bloomberg Politics had recently conducted a focus group of New Hampshire voters, in which a woman used the word ‘‘classy’’ to describe a potential Trump presidency.
As we inched along a side street, Trump said he believed there was a crisis in the way America and the presidency are imagined by customers at home and abroad. ‘‘The branding of our country is at an all-time low,’’ Trump said. ‘‘Now, ‘branding’ might not be the most beautiful word to use, but the fact is the country has been labeled so badly.’’
Trump makes no attempt to cloak his love of fame and, admirably, will not traffic in that tiresome politicians’ notion that his campaign is ‘‘not about me, it’s about you.’’ The ease with which Trump exhibits, and inhabits, his self-­regard is not only central to his ‘‘brand’’ but also highlights a kind of honesty about him. He can even seem hostile to any notion of himself as humble servant — that example of mod­esty that George Washington and Abraham Lincoln strove for.
The idea of a president as Everyman stands at odds with his glamorized vision for the nation. The president should be a man apart, exceptional and resplendent in every way. ‘‘Jimmy Carter used to get off Air Force One carrying his luggage,’’ Trump said. ‘‘I used to say, ‘I don’t want a president carrying his luggage.’ ’’ Carter was a nice man, Trump allowed. ‘‘But we want someone who is going to go out and kick ass and win.’’ Which apparently cannot be done by someone ‘‘who’s gonna come off carrying a large bag of underwear.’’
Hicks pointed out that a few stragglers from 30 Rock were now running on foot after the limo on Sixth Avenue. ‘‘Look at these people,’’ Trump said, turning around to see them. ‘‘It’s literally a little bit sad.’’ The stragglers finally caught the limo at a red light, and Trump opened the window to sign autographs for them. ‘‘How much are you gonna sell this for?’’ he asked.
‘‘America is tired of being pushed into a corner,’’ Matt Yelland, a 60-year-old electrical engineer was telling me before Trump took the stage at the American Airlines Center in Dallas in mid-­September. We were just days from the debate at the Reagan Library, and a crowd of some 17,000 had gathered for a rally. Behind Yelland, a man flashed a ‘‘Silent Majority Is Getting Louder’’ sign, alluding to the old Nixonian notion — the Silent Majority — that Trump has identified as both a campaign slogan and a target market. ‘‘We’re a gentle dog, but we’re tired of being pushed around,’’ Yelland said.
This was a common sentiment among Trump supporters I met, a group that felt worn down from being bullied. Implicit in the campaign’s ‘‘Make America Great Again’’ rallying cry is a yearning for a leader to restore a lost swagger — a return to a less complex, less politically correct and more secure nation. Trump’s war on political correctness is especially pleasing to many of the white voters of the G.O.P. who feel usurped by newcomers and silenced by the progressive gains that women, Hispanics and gays have enjoyed. It also provides a kind of permission structure for Trump to offend in the guise of ‘‘telling it like it is’’ and only enhances the reality-­TV plotline. What will he say next? How will he say it?
Trump’s speech in Dallas, a 70-­minute stemwinder, came out like a zigzagging rocket attack against the many sectors of the political establishment. If, as Mario Cuomo said, a politician campaigns in poetry and governs in prose, we can shove that notion aside in the case of Donald Trump. He campaigns in poetry in much the same way a wild hog sips chardonnay. He ridiculed John Kerry for breaking his leg in a bicycle accident during the Iran nuclear negotiations — so weak and pathetic. ‘‘The people from Iran say, ‘What a schmuck,’ ’’ Trump said of the secretary of state.
But what was more compelling to me about both the speech and the spirit of the room was how nonideological it all was. Other than undocumented immigrants, who represent a go-to boogeyman for the right, Trump’s targets consisted of a bipartisan assembly of the ‘‘permanent political class’’ that Joan Didion described in her book ‘‘Political Fictions’’: that incestuous band of TV talkers, campaign strategists and candidates that had perpetuated the scripted awfulness of our politics.
Resentment of this class has built over several years. It has been expressed on both sides, by the rise of insurgent movements like the Tea Party and Occupy Wall Street (Trump’s railing against fund-­raiser ‘‘blood money,’’ ‘‘bloodsucker’’ lobbyists and Wall Street ‘‘paper pushers’’ would play well across the board). As a reporter in Washington, I, too, have grown exceedingly weary of this world — the familiar faces, recycled tropes and politics as usual — and here was none other than Donald J. Trump, the billionaire blowhard whom I had resisted as a cartoonish demagogue, defiling it with resonance. He tacked not to the left or to the right, but against the ‘‘losers’’ and ‘‘scumbags’’ in the various chapters of the club: the pundits who ‘‘wear heavy glasses’’ and ‘‘sit around the table,’’ the ‘‘political hacks’’ selling out American interests overseas. Karl Rove ‘‘is a totally incompetent jerk,’’ Trump told the crowd in Dallas, referring to the Fox News commentator and chief Republican strategist of the George W. Bush years. The crowd went nuts at the Rove put-down, which in itself is remarkable — the ‘‘architect’’ of Bush’s political ride being abused by a right-­leaning crowd in Bush’s home state.
It was at this point that I began to feel glad I decided to write about Trump, who seemed to have clearly seized on some profound exhaustion with our politics. There’s very little difference between Trump when he’s not running for president and Trump now that he is running for president, except that he makes more public appearances. Trump is the same boorish, brash and grandiose showman we’ve known across many realms. And for some reason, that character has proved an incendiary match with this political moment. It was a repeat of what I saw that night of the first debate, when the whole room abandoned the professional campaign surrogates in favor of the blazing chaos of Trump himself. Was Trump the logical byproduct of a cancerous system in which American democracy has mutated into a gold rush of cheap celebrity, wealth creation and narcissistic branding madness? Or has he merely wielded the tools of this transformation — his money, celebrity and dominance of the media — against the forces that have engendered this disgust in the system to begin with?
Either way, Trump left the rally to sustained applause as two songs played back to back: Twisted Sister’s ‘‘We’re Not Gonna Take It’’ and Aerosmith’s ‘‘Dream On.’’
‘‘There was good energy in that room!’’ Trump told me from the passenger seat of a Suburban as we left the arena after the rally. He exuded the red-­faced giddiness of a teenager who can’t quite believe what’s happening to him. ‘‘You never get a crowd like that without a guitar.’’ He reported that his wife, who watched his speech on cable, ‘‘said I got an A-plus.’’
We were headed to Love Field, where Trump’s Boeing 757 was waiting to ferry us the rest of the way to Southern California for the debate. A small group of gawkers stood along the fence line, snapping pictures of the sleek jet with a big ‘‘T’’ on the tail and a gold-­painted ‘‘Trump’’ on the side. Trump was eager to show me his plane — the conference room and the sleeping quarters, the mohair and silk couches and the gold-­plated seatbelts.
‘‘Do you want to wash your hands or something?’’ Trump asked when I joined him in the main cabin. Trump hates germs (‘‘I am very, very clean’’). He was also hungry. He barreled back to a pantry area arrayed with tin trays of chicken, shrimp, sea bass and chateaubriand. ‘‘Beautiful stuff,’’ Trump marveled over the spread. ‘‘There’s more food than it’s yooooomanly possible to eat.’’ He shoveled big spoons of potato au gratin onto his plate and then turned to the shrimp. ‘‘You like shrimp?’’ he said. He urged me to indulge, just as long as I did not double-­dip in the cocktail sauce. This is a pet issue for him. He was recently at a cocktail party, and they were passing around hors d’oeuvres. ‘‘This big, heavy guy takes the shrimp, puts it in, bit it and puts it in again,’’ he told me. Trump was appalled at the repeat dunking, even in the retelling. ‘‘I said, ‘You just [expletive] double-­dipped!’ He didn’t know what I was talking about.’’
Trump said he was not following any special diet or exercise regimen for the campaign. ‘‘All my friends who work out all the time, they’re going for knee replacements, hip replacements — they’re a disaster,’’ he said. He exerts himself fully by standing in front of an audience for an hour, as he just did. ‘‘That’s exercise.’’ Nor did Trump show much interest in going through the traditional paces of preparing for a presidential debate, which was now 48 hours away. CNN moderators could ask him a million different questions, he said. It makes no sense to lock yourself into a room with briefing books and 20 experts. ‘‘That’s what Romney did, and he was unable to speak,’’ Trump said.
Instead, Trump took his mountain of food and parked himself on a couch next to the big-­screen TV. He spent a good part of the three-hour flight staring up into the giant image of Donald J. Trump giving his speech. He kept flipping between Fox News, CNN and MSNBC, sampling the commentary in tiny snippets. Whenever a new talking head came on screen, Trump offered a scouting report based on the overriding factor of how he or she had treated him. ‘‘This guy’s been great to me,’’ he said when Bill O’Reilly of Fox appeared (less so O’Reilly’s guest, Brit Hume, also of Fox). Kevin Madden of CNN, a Republican strategist, was a ‘‘pure Romney guy,’’ while Ana Navarro, a Republican media consultant and Jeb Bush supporter, was ‘‘so bad, so pathetic, awful — I don’t know why she’s on television.’’ Click to Fox News. Jeb Bush was saying something in Spanish. Click to MSNBC. Hillary Clinton was saying she wished Trump would start ‘‘respecting women’’ rather than ‘‘cherishing women.’’ (‘‘She speaks so poorly, I think she’s in trouble,’’ Trump said.) Click to CNN. It showed a graphic reporting that 70 percent of Latinos had a negative view of Trump. Click to Fox News. Trump asked for another plate of au gratin.
After an hour, as Trump continued to watch himself on TV, I tried to draw out some of the particulars of his big, great plans. We were at the part of the rebroadcast in which Trump was discussing people whose families had been ‘‘decimated’’ by illegal immigrants, the emotional apex of his speech. He described illegal-­immigrant ‘‘rough dudes’’ that join street gangs and commit murder. When Trump is president, ‘‘they will be out of here so freaking fast,’’ he said in the speech. I asked Trump how he planned to round up and eject these thugs. ‘‘Just get ’em out,’’ he said, waving his hand, not looking away from the screen.
It can be difficult to picture Trump, such a pop-culture showman, presiding over the kinds of presidency-­defining ‘‘moments’’ that require solemn empathy. I mentioned Obama after the shooting this summer at a church in Charleston, S.C., or George W. Bush at ground zero in the days after the Sept. 11 attacks. Empathy, he assured me, ‘‘will be one of the strongest things about Trump.’’ But for now, he is in sales mode, trying to convince people that he can do a job. ‘‘When I’m in that position, when we have horrible hurricanes, all kinds of horrible things happen, you’ve got to have empathy.’’
Trump returned to watching himself on the big screen. He was delivering the crescendo of his speech, about how they were all part of a movement to take back the country. ‘‘We will make America great again,’’ he said. Looking up, Trump was pleased.
‘‘Very presidential,’’ he said.
Donald Trump is a dilemma because of the sheer exhaustion he elicits. Every day, there is a fresh feud, a new provocation, an ‘‘inartful description’’ or a ‘‘disgusting’’ story about him somewhere. Not long after I returned from California, there were indications that the Summer of Trump might finally be ceding to a harsher autumn. His lead showed signs of slipping after the last debate. There were slightly tightening polls. He had resorted to taunting Marco Rubio, who was polling better after the debate, for, among other things, sweating a lot.
Still, Trump kept having his aides send me the latest ‘‘beautiful polls.’’ I talked briefly to him before he went on ‘‘The Late Show With Stephen Colbert.’’ ‘‘We did really well in the Morning Consult poll,’’ he told me. ‘‘I guess you saw that one.’’ I observed to Trump that I had never encountered a candidate who talked so much to me about the latest polls. He knew precisely why that was. ‘‘That’s because they’re not leading,’’ he said. Trump signed off by saying that he hoped my article would be fair and added that there was no reason it shouldn’t be. ‘‘I’ve done nothing bad,’’ he told me. ‘‘What have I done bad?’’
How do you answer that question? Trump might be the single most self-­involved yet least introspective person I have ever met in my life, in or out of politics. I’m guessing he would say this is a good quality in a president. It spares him unglamorous dilemmas. But it’s unsettling to encounter a prospective leader whose persona is so conspicuous and well defined and yet whose core is so obtuse. The Obama political acolyte David Axelrod has likened campaigns to ‘‘an M.R.I. for the soul.’’ If that’s the case, maybe the most fascinating question for Trump is not where this all ends up, but what his expedition reveals about Donald Trump’s soul, if it reveals anything at all. ‘‘Some people think this will be good for my brand,’’ Trump concluded, as deep as he probes. ‘‘I think it’s irrelevant for my brand.’’
My lasting image from my travels with Trump was imprinted on me after we landed in Los Angeles late on the night of the Dallas rally. Trump, who says he regularly operates on four hours of sleep, appeared to be dragging for the first time. His face was flush, and his barreling gait had slowed as he crossed the tarmac into a waiting car. At the last minute, one of Trump’s aides invited me to ride with Trump to Beverly Hills, where he owns a mansion. I had planned on getting a cab, and in fact was eager to be alone and also leave Trump in peace after an 18-hour day. But it was tricky to get to the terminal, where the cabs were, so it was just easier to ride — again — with Trump.
‘‘Don’t speak,’’ Trump instructed me as I sat down next to him in a Suburban. That was fine by me. None of the five staff members and security people in the vehicle said a word. We sat, per Trump’s dictate, in silence for the half-hour drive. It was almost comforting to me that he would take a break from being Donald, the Brand, and turn relatively ‘‘off’’ in my presence; that he could, as much as he ever does, retreat into himself. I wondered what he was thinking about.
After a few minutes, I saw Trump staring down into a phone glowing up into his shiny face. I checked my phone, too. ‘‘Speech in Dallas went really well,’’ it said in my Twitter feed, courtesy of @realDonaldTrump, who was tweeting next to me in the dark.
A mercurial candidate needs a mercurial tax plan. Donald J. Trump’s proposal to overhaul the tax code fits the bill. But it would hardly raise the revenue needed to pay the nation’s invoices.
Mr. Trump is following the advice of the Hollywood screenwriter William Goldman to give the people what they want, just not the way they expect it. His tax plan gives the people the huge tax cut they want, paid for by mere rhetoric.
Mr. Trump revealed his tax plan on Monday with flourish and sleight of hand, exaggerating its punitive impact on the rich. In fact, the plan would greatly reduce the taxes of most business owners, bankers, lawyers and other high-income professionals.
The plan would reduce just about everyone’s taxes, with perhaps the singular exception of a few investment fund managers who might face a slight increase in taxes.
The plan contains a seemingly random borrowing of ideas, some good and some bad, with no partisan pattern.
Mr. Trump’s plan would exempt 75 million households from the income tax: anyone who makes less than $25,000 annually or married couples who jointly earn less than $50,000.
Mr. Trump would lower the top income tax rate to 25 percent from the current top rate of 39.6 percent.
Most strikingly, he would reduce the corporate tax rate to 15 percent from 35 percent. And he would extend this rate to businesses that operate in partnership or sole proprietorship form. Lawyers, doctors, accountants and other professionals who often pay tax at marginal rates surpassing 40 percent under current law would see enormous tax savings.
The plan would also retain the capital gains preference and repeal the estate tax.
The plan relies on the magic of supply-side economics for its claim of revenue neutrality. Mr. Trump picks out a series of mostly sensible ways to help pay for a tax cut, including limitations on itemized deductions, limitations on interest deductions and closing the carried interest loophole. But the revenue raised from these base-broadening proposals would hardly cover the revenue lost from reductions in top rates.
His business tax proposal is not quite as crazy at it seems. He proposes a tax rate of 15 percent on both corporate and partnership business income, far below the top rates of 35 percent and 39.6 percent under current law. But the patchwork of available deductions, exemptions, credits and deferral mechanisms results in an average effective tax rate of 25 percent, or lower, for most businesses.
Mr. Trump trumpeted the punitive effect his plan would have on fund managers. But just how this low business tax rate would apply to fund managers is a little unclear. Under current law, most fund managers pay tax at the lower capital gains rate of 20 percent on their share of a fund’s profits, known as carried interest. Under Mr. Trump’s plan, fund managers would pay tax at a top rate of 25 percent, a small increase.
But fund managers also pay tax on some of their income, such as management fees and short-term gains, at a top rate of 39.6 percent. Because their fee income is earned through a business, that rate would be cut to 15 percent under Mr. Trump’s plan. Funds would quickly restructure carried interest from a partnership allocation to an incentive fee to qualify for the low 15 percent rate.
Mr. Trump would help pay for the rate cuts with a one-time 10 percent tax on the deferred foreign earnings of United States multinational corporations, and he would end the ability of American businesses to defer income in the future.
This approach roughly tracks the most recent budget proposal from the White House. Many Republicans in Congress, on the other hand, would prefer to shift to a territorial system, which exempts foreign income altogether. Mr. Trump’s proposal to broaden the base and lower the rate makes more sense.
Still, the plan relies on vague assertions without evidence that lower tax rates would provide a “tremendous stimulus” for the economy, “significant” gross domestic growth and a “huge” number of new jobs.
Mr. Trump’s plan includes some sensible suggestions to broaden the tax base and reduce rates. If it included more specific loophole closers, or a progressive consumption tax or value added tax to raise revenue, it would be treated as a serious proposal and an act of leadership. Instead, it will be dismissed in tax policy circles as just another exaggerated claim of a carnival barker.
Mr. Trump’s campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Lying prone on a rug adorned with the Great Seal of the United States, the woman who might someday be first lady is wearing high-heeled sandals and a crimson bikini.
The date is February 2000. Donald J. Trump hasn’t yet thrown his hat into the ring as a Reform Party candidate, yet he’s already set in motion a machine that 15 years on will turn a voluble political maverick into the front-runner for the Republican Party presidential nomination.
The woman on the rug is Melania Knauss, a Slovene model, who at 29 is almost a quarter-century younger than her billionaire future husband. The rug is a prop in an Oval Office set mocked up in a Manhattan photo studio. Spread across two pages of the now defunct Talk magazine, Mr. Trump is seen in an inset close up; telescope back from the picture and what you’d see is Mr. Trump seated behind the presidential desk and at his feet his future wife, a woman striking in her beauty and docility.
If it is always the case in politics that you “play a role,” as Ms. Knauss observed in a caption accompanying those photos, you do this because politics is, above all else, “a business.”
Observers of the business and ongoing theater of a Trump candidacy are bound to be struck by the passive role played by the candidate’s wife, one seeming to predate gender equality, in an embrace of values from an era when a potential first lady might be less likely to have served as her husband’s former law firm mentor (as Michelle Obama once was) than his carpet ornament.
“Why do we not see her?” Frank Luntz, the Republican pollster, asked recently, referring to Mrs. Trump’s near invisibility on the campaign trail, her sole appearance a wordless photo op for which she smiled prettily as her husband announced his candidacy. “One reason is that Republicans take a traditional view of marriage,” Mr. Luntz said. “And she is not a traditional spouse.”
The truth of this has been underscored in a variety of ways as the Trump campaign continues to gather momentum. When Mr. Trump formally announced in June, it was not his wife who offered remarks but Ivanka Trump, the 33-year-old daughter some have already begun referring to as his unofficial campaign spouse.
When at the Republican debate in September the moderator Jake Tapper invited the assembled hopefuls to introduce themselves, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky was quick to note his quarter-century marriage to his wife, Kelly. Following suit, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas then referred to his longtime spouse, Heidi, while Senator Marco Rubio of Florida ticked off the 17 years he’d been married to his wife, and both Ben Carson and Carly Fiorina made references to the individuals they’ve been wed to for decades.
When it came time for Mr. Trump to introduce himself, the New York-based billionaire said nothing of his wife, stating only: “I am Donald Trump. And I wrote ‘The Art of the Deal.’ ”
And again in a “60 Minutes” interview broadcast recently and filmed at the couple’s ornate Manhattan residence, Mrs. Trump was notable by her absence. “I think this is a correct decision,” Mr. Luntz said, referring to Mrs. Trump’s starkly limited public profile. “If his wife doesn’t want to be center stage, then she shouldn’t be.”
It was only this week, with an article in People magazine that featured the smiling family on the cover, accompanying the headline “At Home With the Trumps!” that Mrs. Trump decided (albeit briefly) to break her silence.
In this patch of valuable media real estate usually reserved for Kardashian newborns and other orchestrated reveals, the potential first lady suggests that family obligations are keeping her at home. “My husband is traveling all the time. Barron needs somebody as a parent, so I am with him all the time,” she told the magazine, adding that she was “not ready to get political yet.”
The decision by Mr. Trump, if such it is, to promote his daughter and not his wife as consort on the campaign trail, is a shrewd one, Mr. Luntz said. “Politics is not her first, second, third, fifth language,” he said. “It’s not her world. And if it’s not your world, you will get tripped.”
While it’s difficult to determine the reasons behind the apparent decision for Ivanka Trump to take on a role traditionally assigned to a candidate’s wife (Donald, Melania and Ivanka Trump declined requests for interviews for this article through a campaign spokeswoman), it helps to take a peek into Mr. Trump’s checkered marital history.
In his first wife, the brash émigré Ivana Trump, a former sometime model, a former champion skier and — as “Never Enough,” a new biography of Mr. Trump by Michael D’Antonio, the Pulitzer-winning journalist, notes — a highly inventive fabulist, Mr. Trump found a glamorous and willing companion for his ride to enormous wealth and fame in the go-go ’80s.
The strobe-loving first Mrs. Trump, born Ivana Zelnickova either in postwar communist Czechoslovakia or possibly Austria, entered into marriage to Mr. Trump at Marble Collegiate Church in 1977 with the ministerial services of the Rev. Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, author of “The Power of Positive Thinking” (to this day, Mr. D’Antonio said, Mr. Trump’s favorite reading) and with a prenuptial agreement drafted by Roy Cohn, a McCarthy-era henchman.
That marriage produced Mr. Trump’s first three children, countless headlines and paparazzi snapshots and, perhaps coincidentally, what would become regular “leaks” to the press by a Trump wife about her husband’s superhuman sexual potency.
The press alternated between breathlessly reporting and ritually parodying the opulent Trump lifestyle and tumultuous marriage, one plagued by reports of infidelity and that ended in a turn of events so Hollywood-hokey that, as Mr. D’Antonio notes in his book, script writers long ago abandoned it as a plot device: Ivana Trump overheard her husband talking to his mistress when she picked up a telephone extension.
What followed was the notorious and much chronicled ski-slope confrontation between Mrs. Trump and Marla Maples in Aspen, Colo. Mr. Trump eventually divorced Ivana Trump and married Ms. Maples in 1993, two months after the birth of their daughter, Tiffany. That marriage, too, provided tabloid fodder and ended in divorce in 1999, shortly before he met the third woman he would take to the altar.
Like Ivana Trump, Melania Trump is also a naturalized citizen, an immigrant — though not from one of those countries her husband suggests walling off from the continental United States. Born Melania Knavs in Sevnica, Yugoslavia, now Slovenia, she is the daughter of a onetime auto dealership manager and a woman described in differing accounts as a fashion designer or seamstress, depending on the source.
It was at a modeling contest before she took up her studies at the University of Ljubljana that Melania Knauss attracted the attention of the photographer Stane Jerko, who shot the first test photos of a pretty teenager with baby-fat cheeks and a Madonna-style ponytail, pictures that eventually resulted in her signing with a Milan modeling agency and beginning her successful career as a mannequin.
Though never in any sense a top model, during the years before she met Mr. Trump the 5-foot-11 Ms. Knauss was nevertheless photographed for ad campaigns and magazine pictorials, shot by prominent fashion photographers like Patrick Demarchelier and Mario Testino, and she appeared in the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue and on the cover of Harper’s Bazaar.
In 2000 she posed naked on a white fur rug inside a private jet for British GQ, and in that same year was reported by The New York Post to have whispered on air to Howard Stern that she and Mr. Trump were enjoying “ ‘incredible sex,’ at least once a day, sometimes ‘even more.’ ”
The two married in 2005 at a Palm Beach Episcopal Church, with a reception at Mr. Trump’s Mar-a-Lago Club. The bride wore an embroidered couture dress from Christian Dior whose ornamentation alone required more than 500 hours, at a cost estimated at more than $100,000. The guest list for the wedding included Katie Couric, P. Diddy, Heidi Klum, Shaquille O’Neal and a smattering of Republican politicians, along with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, in what Mr. Trump declared was practically a paid performance.
Anna Wintour of Condé Nast was also on hand and afterward featured the bride on the cover of Vogue dressed in her elaborate couture dress, her features mysteriously shrouded by a veil, her hand adorned with a 13-carat emerald-cut diamond engagement ring Mr. Trump reputedly acquired half-off in a deal struck with a celebrated New York jeweler. In March 2006, Mrs. Trump gave birth to a son, Barron William Trump, now 9 and a student at a private school in Manhattan.
Mrs. Trump then settled into a life that, were it not for her husband’s presidential aspirations, might resemble that of any number of trophy spouses in New York, Palm Beach and Paris, the three cities Mrs. Trump says she loves most. “Life is a balancing act,” she told E! after the debut of a jewelry collection she designed and briefly sold on a shopping network. “You need to be very organized and very quick and just very on the toes all the time.”
For a time, her 51,600 Twitter followers were allowed a rare window into her honeyed but seemingly isolated life in the form of regular Twitter posts featuring selfies of her beauty rituals, private jet rides and bikini body. That window snapped shut in July, just after Mr. Trump declared his candidacy and following incendiary comments of his depicting Mexican immigrants as murderers and rapists. The last Twitter post (at least for now) from @MelaniaTrump was an image of the American flag date-stamped July 4.
As the first presidential spouse since Louisa Adams to be born outside the United States, Mrs. Trump would also potentially be the first for whom English is not a native language. Her lingua franca, say those from the tight social circles she inhabits, is “nice.”
“Mrs. Trump is a supportive wife, great mother and a lovely person,” Wendi Deng Murdoch, Rupert Murdoch’s former wife, said in reply to an email query. “She is incapable of being mean,” said Brad Johns, the celebrity colorist who for years added the caramel highlights to Mrs. Trump’s hair. “She’s not gossipy at all, not bitchy and just really nice, though I know that’s not exciting to hear,” said Robert Janjigian, fashion editor for The Palm Beach Daily News.
“It’s interesting that she came in after his last ones, who talked all the time, and is a very quiet and nice person,” said Harry Benson, the seasoned photographer, who has done numerous portraits of Mr. Trump in Palm Beach home with his various wives.
“She’s very, very nice, and he’s got absolutely the perfect woman for him, who I’m sure is not just arm candy, though she looks like she is,” said Liz Smith, the gossip columnist.
“She’s a really nice person and a fabulous mother,” said Terry Allen Kramer, the Palm Beach socialite and veteran Broadway producer, echoing a point that resounded through more than a dozen interviews with those from Trump family circles. Asked whether Mrs. Trump is likely to make a proper first lady, Ms. Kramer paused for a beat before responding, “I don’t think we vote for the first lady.”
GREENVILLE, S.C. — Tensions among three of the Republican presidential hopefuls vying for support from the establishment wing of the party burst into public view this week, suggesting a new, more combative phase of a campaign that has been dominated by attacks between Donald J. Trump and nearly all of his rivals.
The crossfire began on Wednesday in New Hampshire when Jeb Bush compared Senator Marco Rubio’s message of generational change to that of President Obama’s. And it escalated on Thursday in Iowa, where Mr. Rubio’s staff ejected a videographer working for a “super PAC” supporting Mr. Bush from a campaign event — and then took a more personal turn on Friday when Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio mocked Mr. Bush’s decline in the polls.
With Mr. Trump still at the top of the polls as the calendar moves to October, the other candidates feel a growing urgency to stand out as more voters begin paying attention to the Republican contest and the bombastic casino magnate continues to command much of the media coverage of the race. Mr. Bush, especially, is campaigning more aggressively as he slips in many national and state polls.
Introducing himself at a policy forum on the campus of Furman University here Friday, Mr. Bush said that in his time as the governor of Florida he “disrupted the old order” and “turned the place upside down.”
Repeating a word he has used with greater frequency as it becomes clear that voters have an appetite for candidates willing to challenge the political status quo, Mr. Bush added, “I think Washington, D.C., needs a little bit of disruption, as well.”
And speaking to reporters after the event, he dismissed Mr. Kasich’s criticism, boasting that he was more accomplished than the Ohio governor and every other candidate in the field.
“I will match it with any candidate running for president,” Mr. Bush said of his record.
He recounted his success cutting state taxes and reducing the state work force while noting Florida’s economic growth during his tenure. Putting aside any inherited Bush modesty for the moment, Mr. Bush asked: “If I don’t toot my own horn, who’s going to toot it?”
But he has not just been promoting himself of late. In an interview with CNN on Wednesday, Mr. Bush pointedly linked Mr. Rubio to Mr. Obama.
“Look, we had a president who came in and said the same kind of thing — new and improved, hope and change — and he didn’t have the leadership skills to fix things,” said the former governor.
The same night, after a New Hampshire town hall meeting, Mr. Bush also seemed to take aim at Mr. Rubio’s voting record, with the lowest attendance rate in the Senate this year at 70 percent. 
“I think if you had a dock-in-pay strategy, you’d probably get more attendance,” he said, before an aide rushed him away.
Thursday night, in Cedar Falls, Iowa, Mr. Rubio’s supporters hurled the political equivalent of a brushback pitch at Mr. Bush, ejecting a video tracker from the former governor’s “super PAC” who tried to record Mr. Rubio at his own campaign event and then fingering him to Politico, which reported the stymied surveillance.
Mr. Rubio has refrained from criticizing Mr. Bush by name, but has consistently warned Republicans against nominating “the next person in line or the most familiar name” and, on Thursday, not-so-cryptically said the party should not elect “the person all the experts tell us we have to vote for.”
Perhaps feeling left out from the public back-and-forth, Mr. Kasich and his aides gleefully seized on a report that the Bush super PAC had been doing research at the Ohio library which holds the papers from his 18 years in Congress.
“I would think that they’re in there because they are getting nervous,” Mr. Kasich told reporters in New Hampshire on Friday. “When you are trailing in places like New Hampshire, where John Sununu has built a great team, and you’re not doing so hot in other places, of course they are going to go looking around at who might be the mature adult.” (Mr. Sununu, the former Republican senator from New Hampshire, is a Kasich backer.)
In what is itself a sign of how the campaign is evolving, the Bush super PAC made no apology for its efforts against Mr. Rubio and Mr. Kasich. A spokesman for Right to Rise, Paul Lindsay, said the group was “collecting routine, issue-based research on all the candidates in the race.”
“Iowa and central Ohio are also wonderful places to visit this time of year,” he added.
Mr. Kasich’s advisers did not try to conceal their delight over what they said was Mr. Bush’s nervousness.
“I don’t want to say the Bush campaign is panicked yet but I think panic is not that far down the road given his resources, his name ID,” said John Weaver, Mr. Kasich’s strategist, adding, “No empire, even a fading one, is going to go quietly into the night.”
Another veteran of presidential campaigns said the change in tone owed to voters beginning to seriously consider potential presidents.
“As we get closer to caucuses and primaries, this race will swing away from registering a mood and swing toward selecting a nominee,” said Kevin Madden, a Republican communications expert who worked on the last three White House races. “That’s where this new round of engagement is coming from. Bush, Kasich and Rubio are scraping up against each other right now in an effort to be in the best position when voters get to that point.”
Donald J. Trump calls it his own version of a newspaper: a stream of boasts, taunts and opinions, delivered on Twitter at all hours of the day to his more than four million followers. Since 2009, he has used the social media platform to build his brand — and, now, to communicate with voters as a candidate for president. Below, a sampling of his tweets and an analysis of what makes them so Trumpian.
A classic Trump tweet: touching on pop culture, justifying his own habits (he is a full-freight Coke drinker) and insulting strangers (the non-thin who prefer Diet Coke).
Several Trump tweets are unexpectedly personal. He fondly quotes his mother and father and expresses gratitude for their wisdom (and the wealth they left him).
Timed to defend his first debate performance and deflate the outrage against him, this summarizes Mr. Trump’s message of political outsiderism: I talk like you, not like them.
Mr. Trump is unusually engaged with his followers, frequently responding to their tweets with a pithy comment or message of thanks — a relatively rare gesture for prominent people or presidential candidates on Twitter. The risk? Falling prey to pranksters, who have repeatedly tricked Mr. Trump into replying to their messages. (“Great,” he wrote when somebody playfully claimed that “my dad” — a British politician, ineligible to participate in United States elections — would vote for Mr. Trump.)
Mr. Trump has a weakness for celebrity gossip, tweeting about the love lives of Katy Perry and John Mayer, or Kristen Stewart and Robert Pattinson (back in 2012). The upside: He taps into the zeitgeist. The downside: He can come off as frivolous.
Mr. Trump delights in tweaking his rivals, but there is a political strategy behind the schoolyard taunts. He is careful to insult the candidate, not his supporters. Here, in fact, he is inviting those backing Rand Paul to give him a chance, even as he indirectly mocks the candidate.
The actress Kim Novak, a megastar of 1950s cinema, was a near-recluse when friends urged her to take a chance and appear at the Academy Awards last year.
Sitting at home, Donald J. Trump spotted Ms. Novak, then 81, on his television screen and recoiled at her appearance. He tapped out a message on Twitter.
“I’m having a real hard time watching,” Mr. Trump wrote. “Kim should sue her plastic surgeon!”
To Ms. Novak, who read the message after the show, it was a devastating setback in her return to public life: She retreated to Oregon, fell into what she called “a tailspin” and refused to leave her house for days. In an open letter to her fans a few weeks later, Ms. Novak denounced Mr. Trump’s tweet as bullying.
For Mr. Trump, a serial exploiter of old-line media, it was a painful yet potent lesson in the power of new media to agitate and motivate a vast, unseen audience. Inundated with replies of disgust and support, he eventually backtracked online (“I was always a big fan of Kim Novak”) and sent her a rueful private letter.
A year later, Mr. Trump has mastered Twitter in a way no candidate for president ever has, unleashing and redefining its power as a tool of political promotion, distraction, score-settling and attack — and turning a 140-character task that other candidates farm out to young staff members into a centerpiece of his campaign.
In the process, he has managed to fulfill a vision, long predicted but slow to materialize, sketched out a decade ago by a handful of digital campaign strategists: a White House candidacy that forgoes costly, conventional methods of political communication and relies instead on the free, urgent and visceral platforms of social media.
“He’s used social media to replace the traditional apparatus of a political campaign,” said Zac Moffatt, who oversaw Mitt Romney’s digital outreach in 2012 and co-founded Targeted Victory, a consulting firm focused on online campaign tactics. “Trump is living on this medium.”
Now, as Mr. Trump enters an uncertain period in his campaign, even rival campaigns acknowledge that Twitter is providing a powerful bulwark against a slide in his poll numbers, by allowing millions of supporters to make his case for him and deflect the controversies he delights in touching off.
His online dominance is striking: Over the past two months, on Twitter alone, he has been mentioned in 6.3 million conversations, eight times as many as Republican rivals like Marco Rubio, Carly Fiorina and Ben Carson — not to mention more than three times as many as Hillary Rodham Clinton and nearly four times as many as Bernie Sanders. He is retweeted more than twice as often as Mrs. Clinton and about 13 times more frequently than Jeb Bush, according to data compiled as of Friday by Edelman Berland, a market research firm that studies social media. His Twitter following (4.36 million) dwarfs that of the rest of the Republican field, and in the coming weeks, he is expected to surpass Mrs. Clinton (4.39 million).
In an interview at his office — interrupted repeatedly by Mr. Trump’s picking up his Samsung Galaxy cellphone, loading new tweets with his index finger and marveling at his nonstop mentions (“Watch this!” he implored) — the candidate compared his Twitter feed to a newspaper with a single, glorious voice: his own.
“The Ernest Hemingway of a hundred and forty characters,” he said, quoting a fan.
In the past, Mr. Trump said, when dealing with a dishonest rival “there was nothing you can do other than sue.”
“Which I’ve done,” he added. “But it’s a long process.”
Now, he simply tweets. Caustically, colorfully and repeatedly.
Suddenly, he said of his foes, “I have more power than they do.”
“I can let people know that they were a fraud,” he continued. “I can let people know that they have no talent, that they didn’t know what they’re doing. You have a voice.”
On Twitter, Mr. Trump has assembled an online SWAT team of devoted (some say rabid) supporters who spring into action with stunning speed. In a pattern that has played out over and over, he makes a provocative remark, like one about Mrs. Fiorina’s face — “Would anybody vote for that?’’ — and hundreds of thousands of strangers defend him, spread his message and engage in emotional debates with his critics, all the while ensuring he remains the subject of a constant conversation.
When Mr. Trump wanted to defend his failure to correct a white voter who declared that Barack Obama is a Muslim, he tapped out a message on Sept. 19.
It was quickly retweeted by 7,000 people, and over roughly six hours it provoked more than 1,000 discussions that mentioned him. Forty percent of those were pro-Trump in sentiment, according to Edelman Berland.
The next day, Mr. Bush fired off an unusually pointed tweet, by his standards, attacking a campaign ad about Sept. 11 that was made by allies of Mrs. Clinton. But its life cycle was comparatively short and tepid. It received only about one-twelfth as many retweets, and provoked around 200 conversations over about an hour, of which 5 percent were pro-Bush, the firm found.
Mike Berland, a political operative who worked on Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 presidential campaign and is chief executive of Edelman Berland, calls it the “Wall of Trump.”
“We’ve never seen this before in politics,” Mr. Berland said. “This is not just a rally that happens once in a while. This is a continuous Trump rally that happens on Twitter at all hours. He fills the Twitter stadium every day.”
Many mornings around 3:30, Eric Popkin, a 53-year-old project manager at an architecture firm with no ties to the campaign, logs on to his computer in Orlando, Fla., and creates elaborate graphics in support of Mr. Trump that he disseminates on Twitter.
Mr. Trump’s candor and style inspire a loyalty he cannot quite explain. “It’s like a sports team. If you are from New York, and you like the Jets or Giants and somebody is bad-mouthing your team, there is kind of knee-jerk reaction to defend them,” Mr. Popkin said. “We have an emotional connection to him. It’s good old human nature.”
Not all of the outpouring is spontaneous. Supporters have organized themselves into online squads that defend Mr. Trump. A man identifying himself as Gary Forbes has recruited volunteer “operatives” on Twitter, sending out daily emails directing them to emphasize pro-Trump messages (“Trump’s immigration plan will protect thousands of women from abuse”) and target rival candidates (“What Jeb must do for Fox Billionaire Murdoch’s $$$”). A project code-named “Magic Kingdom” took aim last week at Mr. Rubio, the senator from Florida, according to an email obtained by The New York Times.
Asked about the effort, Mr. Forbes directed questions to the Trump campaign. A Trump spokeswoman, Hope Hicks, said the campaign had no affiliation with Mr. Forbes.
Mr. Trump, 69, is an improbable virtuoso of the tweet. He has no computer in his office (a staff member brings in a laptop to show him videos) and asks aides to print his emails for consumption the old-fashioned way. But around 2011, his staff turned him on to the possibilities of @realdonaldtrump, a sleepy account started in 2009 that largely quoted from Mr. Trump’s books.
He quickly adapted to Twitter’s stock in trade: endless feuds, ego stroking and casual cruelty. He usually dictates messages to his assistant during the day and types them himself at home or on the golf course, from which he has sent more than 100, according to geographic data embedded in his tweets. The most frequently used words in his tweets: “great” (more than 700 times), “winner” or “winners” (43), and “loser” or “losers” (34). In all, he has sent more than 28,000 tweets — the rough equivalent of 12 a day.
Mr. Trump has called Arianna Huffington, the liberal website publisher, “unattractive both inside and out”; described Bette Midler as “extremely unattractive”; and declared that President Obama had guaranteed “you won’t see another black president for generations.”
Asked about his judgment in sending those messages, he defended all but one: his mockery of Ms. Novak. “I would have preferred I didn’t send it,” Mr. Trump said. “That was done in fun, but sometimes you do things in fun and they turn out to be hurtful, and I don’t like doing that.”
He has developed strong views about the rules, rituals and rhythms of Twitter. On the 140-character limit: “I wish it were longer on 10 percent of the occasions.”
On deleting tweets: “One of the things I do find is that when you delete it, it becomes a bigger story than having it.”
That, of course, has not stopped him from deleting tweets, like a 2013 message in which he extended “best wishes to all, even the haters and losers, on this special date, September 11th.”
His followers on Twitter did not seem to mind. Back in his office at Trump Tower the other day, he kept collecting new mentions, even though he had not sent a tweet in hours.
“Look at this,” Mr. Trump beckoned. “So this is eight seconds ago. See that?” Messages scrolled by in a blur. “That’s eight seconds ago these tweets came in.”
He looked up with satisfaction. “How,” he asked, “can you do better than that?”
