The president’s accusations turn reality on its head and the media should say so.
On Sept. 24, 2015, Geoffrey Pyatt, then the American ambassador to Ukraine, spoke in Odessa about the scourge of corruption. It was about a year and a half after what is sometimes called the Revolution of Dignity, when Ukrainians overthrew the kleptocratic, Russian-aligned regime of Viktor Yanukovych. The country was trying to move in a more liberal, European direction. Corruption, said Pyatt, threatened to hold the new Ukraine back.
Pyatt called out the office of Viktor Shokin, then the prosecutor general of Ukraine. “Corrupt actors within the prosecutor general’s office are making things worse by openly and aggressively undermining reform,” he said. Pyatt specifically lambasted Shokin’s office for subverting a British case against a man named Mykola Zlochevsky, Yanukovych’s former ecology minister.
In 2014, as part of a money-laundering investigation, British authorities froze $23 million Zlochevsky had in London. They requested supporting documentation from Shokin’s office. Instead, it intervened on Zlochevsky’s behalf. “As a result the money was freed by the U.K. court and shortly thereafter the money was moved to Cyprus,” said Pyatt.
“Shokin was seen as a single point of failure clogging up the system and blocking corruption cases,” a former official in Barack Obama’s administration told me. Vice President Joe Biden eventually took the lead in calling for Shokin’s ouster.
As all this was happening, Biden’s son, Hunter, sat on the board of Burisma Holdings, a natural gas company that Zlochevsky co-founded, at some points earning $50,000 a month. Zlochevsky might have thought he could ingratiate himself with the Obama administration by buying an association with the vice president. All available evidence suggests he was wrong.
Turning this history on its head, Trump has accused Joe Biden of coercing Ukraine to jettison Shokin in order to protect Hunter. He has pressured Ukraine’s current president to open an investigation into the Bidens, which would make Trump’s charges seem more credible. As the president faces impeachment, his surrogates are parroting his attack on Biden, and his campaign is reportedly spending a staggering $10 million on an ad to amplify the smear.
Journalists, perhaps seeking to appear balanced, have sometimes described Trump’s claims about Biden as “unsubstantiated” or “unsupported.” That is misleading, because it suggests more muddiness in the factual record than actually exists. Trump isn’t making unproven charges against Biden. He is blatantly lying about him. He and his defenders are spreading a conspiracy theory that is the precise opposite of the truth.
[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]
Like most effective conspiracy theories, this one is built around a speck of something real. Hunter Biden’s place on Burisma’s board was untoward, even if it’s preposterous for Trump to complain about nepotistic corruption. Biden’s son doesn’t seem to have broken any laws, but the way he traded on his name was still sleazy.
Joe Biden appears to have been uncomfortable with his son’s involvement with Burisma; in a New Yorker profile, Hunter recalled his father saying, “I hope you know what you are doing.” Hunter said they never spoke further about the issue; Biden has made a point of not talking to his son about his business dealings.
It’s not hard to imagine why Biden didn’t press Hunter. The Biden boys and their father had been through hell together. Hunter has said his first memory was waking up in the hospital next to his older brother, Beau, after the car crash that killed their mother and baby sister. He grew up to be a troubled man, his life pockmarked by addiction and failure.
Beau died of brain cancer a few months before Biden traveled to Ukraine to push the government to crack down on corruption. It’s not shocking that, at a moment when his family was consumed by grief, Biden wasn’t inclined to confront his surviving son.
But even if you’re not inclined to empathize with Biden — even if you assume the worst about him — Trump’s conspiracy theory makes no sense. To believe it, you’d have to first believe that the foreign affairs apparatus of the Obama administration was willing to put its credibility on the line in service of the black sheep of the Biden family. After all, Joe Biden wasn’t freelancing in Ukraine; he was carrying out White House policy.
Further, if the Trump administration truly believes that Obama’s Ukraine policy was crooked, one might ask why it has Pyatt, who helped accomplish that policy, representing America as ambassador to Greece.
Most important, getting rid of Shokin made an investigation of Burisma more likely, not less. “He didn’t want to investigate Burisma,” the Ukrainian anti-corruption activist Daria Kaleniuk told The Washington Post. “Shokin was fired not because he wanted to do that investigation, but quite to the contrary, because he failed that investigation.”
However bad the optics around Hunter Biden, Joe Biden was not serving his son’s interests. If anything, they were working at cross-purposes.
As I’ve written multiple times, I don’t want Biden to be the Democratic nominee. There’s much in his legislative record that troubles me, and I don’t think he’s as electable as his champions claim. In some ways, my preferred political outcome would be advanced if Trump’s Ukraine scandal ends up tarring Biden as well.
But Trump’s weaponized disinformation is corrosive to democracy no matter whom it targets. Like many authoritarians, he depends on getting people to accept a big lie or to give up on the idea of truth altogether. If he succeeds in defaming Biden today, he’ll be even more audacious in using the same strategy against anyone else who threatens him. What’s at stake isn’t just Biden’s political future. It’s how much Trump can erode the political salience of reality, and how much the media helps him.
“They don’t say the France or the Spain.”
PAUL GERLACH, the president of the Ukrainian Community of Western Pennsylvania, complaining about the way pundits on TV occasionally say “the Ukraine,” as if it were still just another region of the Russian empire.
Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.
As the House moves forward with the impeachment inquiry into President Trump, a report published Monday detailed Trump’s asking the Australian prime minister to help discredit the Mueller investigation.
Hillary Clinton weighed in on Mike Pompeo’s participation in Trump’s call to Ukraine while appearing on “The Late Show” with her daughter Chelsea.
Rachel Maddow will chat with Colbert about her new book, “Blowout,” on Tuesday’s “Late Show.”
That DreamWorks’ new animated film, “Abominable,” centers on a Chinese-American family is still somewhat unorthodox. But even rarer: The studio hired a cast of Asian-American actors to voice its Asian characters.
How high-minded self-dealing paved the way for our low-minded president.
Every republic, large and small, lives with a tension between the need for public-spirited, civic-minded leaders and the inevitable pull of private interests and affections. The larger and wealthier the republic, the greater the challenge, because the republic’s officials must live and move and work in an atmosphere of commercial wealth and foreign lucre — which creates not only direct temptation but also, more subtly, a fear that you are failing your family, your children, if you remain unbought.
The Roman republic in its waning years managed this tension by creating a zone of self-enrichment that was outside the res publica. The public-spirited Roman served the republic in the city of Rome and then got rich somewhere else, far away and out of sight. You climbed the cursus honorum, you reached the office of praetor or consul, you governed honorably and ably (at least in theory), and then your reward was to become a provincial governor and have the chance to squeeze the inhabitants of Hispania Ulterior or Gallia Narbonensis for every last denarius — subject only to occasional prosecution for “abuses” if you made the wrong enemies back home.
The American republic, more idealistic and less brutal than its Roman antecedent, doesn’t send former cabinet officials and senators off to practice extractive taxation everywhere that we have military bases. Instead, we’ve developed a more complicated interplay between public service and private enrichment, a labyrinthine system of consultancies and adviserships and directorates and boards in which the dedicated public servant can make enough money to keep up with the cost of tuition at Sidwell or Exeter without ever taking anything so embarrassing as a bribe.
The ideological grease in this system is the belief that the American businessman, the American soldier and the American diplomat are all fundamentally doing the same work, expanding the Pax Americana one newly opened market, one toppled strongman and one baby democracy at a time. So why shouldn’t our public servants move back and forth between these realms — selling arms to our allies one day, serving on a do-gooding foundation funded by allies and defense contractors the next, helping those allies lobby our government the day after that? After all, all these projects serve the same goal: A world of capitalist democracies at peace with one another, free to get rich under the umbrella of the American military.
[The big debates, distilled. This guide will put in context what people are saying about the pressing issues of the week. Sign up for our new newsletter, Debatable.]
This kind of thinking has animated and justified elite self-enrichment throughout my lifetime. Think of Dick Cheney’s smooth move from supervising the Defense Department to running a defense contractor to supervising the Defense Department once again, or the extraordinary post-presidential buckraking of the Clinton family and their foundation’s global funding stream. 
But the pattern isn’t just personal, it’s also structural, with specific opportunities for moneymaking embedded in big-picture, bipartisan projects: the Clinton-era attempt to transform post-Soviet Russia into a functioning capitalist democracy; the Bush-era attempt to remake the Middle East; the multi-administration push to unite American and Chinese markets, creating a free and prosperous “Chimerica” on which the sun would never set.
We are where we are in American politics, in part, because all these big-picture projects succeeded in enriching private interests … but failed to achieve their stated public goals. The “shock therapy” delivered to Russia midwifed Putinism instead of a prosperous American ally. The war in Iraq ushered in a regional conflict that’s still burning to this day. Chimerica worked out better for the Chinese than for many working-class Americans, and far better for the Chinese Politburo than for the cause of liberty. And the self-justifying doctrine of the present elite — that you can serve the common good while in office and do well for yourself afterward — became far more implausible when the elite’s projects kept failing even as the officeholders kept on cashing in.
Yet the quest for such projects persisted — including in the strange Ukrainian twilight where Donald Trump may have finally found his way to an impeachable offense. Five years ago the Americans making money in Ukraine were, like Paul Manafort, mostly doing so cynically and quietly. But then we backed Ukraine’s 2014 revolution and Russia responded with aggression — and suddenly there was a perceived synergy between U.S. foreign policy objectives, U.S. ideals and the desire of U.S. officials for gainful employment.
Sure, this synergy had failed in Russia in the 1990s, but maybe in the shadow of that failure’s Putinist consequences we could succeed in Ukraine in the 2010s. Hunter Biden’s sinecure at a Ukrainian energy conglomerate represents the crassest form of this mentality. But as Sarah Chayes notes in a stinging Atlantic essay, the more “normal” versions are no less striking: Consider Kurt Volker, our special envoy for Ukraine until last weekend, who was inside the U.S. government advocating the arming of Kiev with missiles manufactured by a company that funds the think tank and the global consultancy he joined after his prior stint in government. 
[Listen to “The Argument” podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]
All of this is crucial backdrop to the Trump presidency, and essential to understanding the ways in which Trump’s repudiation of post-1989 ideological projects and his pledge to drain the D.C. swamp were fundamentally conjoined. It wasn’t that one represented tough-guy realism and the other some sort of pretend good-government idealism. It was that in attacking post-Cold War idealism and the culture of legal self-dealing in D.C., Trump was offering a unified rejection of the entire way that American public servants of both parties have claimed to harmonize republican service and self-enrichment, the entire ideological edifice justifying cashing in.
In this sense the strongest defense of Trump’s possibly impeachable conduct vis-à-vis Hunter Biden and his father isn’t some sort of careful “no quid pro quo!” parsing of the president’s words. It’s the more straightforward argument that, as Dan McCarthy wrote for The National Interest over the weekend, this was what Trump was elected to do — to “use all legal means at his disposal to strike at business-as-usual among the political elite,” even if that requires trampling over norms that would normally prevent a U.S. president from encouraging a foreign investigation into his rival and his rival’s family.
But this defense requires believing that a kind of “the worse, the better” response to elite malfeasance will somehow bring us back to a less corrupt equilibrium. Trump was indeed, as McCarthy wrote, “elected on his own kind of anti-corruption manifesto.” But there is nothing of republican austerity or Catonian civic virtue in how he has actually governed. Instead, the tone was set, well, by his entire pre-presidential career, but let’s say especially by his campaign-season hiring of Manafort, a statement that in place of elite self-enrichment through New World Order synergies, Trump was offering corruption without varnish, self-dealing without ideological self-justification.
And so it has been throughout his administration, which has been distinguished not by any sort of Savonarolan intolerance for impropriety, but by a brazen willingness, from Trump officials and Trump family members alike, to exploit the perks of office while in office rather than waiting decorously to cash in.
One could certainly imagine a world where a populist president pressed legitimately for an investigation into a rival’s son “to strike at business-as-usual” within a corrupt elite. But when that president’s own family has been breezily monetizing their advantages and blurring the private interest/public service line from Day 1 of this administration, it’s impossible to see such an investigation through any lens except Trump’s political self-interest.
One could even imagine a world where a president battling corruption felt legitimately compelled to dispatch his personal lawyer to run a secret inquisition into malfeasance that the existing bureaucracy wouldn’t touch. But when that inquisitor is Rudy Giuliani — a once-admirable public servant whose subsequent conflicts and cash-ins are legendary — well, then it’s obvious you’re just in the realm of Medici plots and late-Roman-republic politicized prosecutions, without a Savonarola or a Cato anywhere in sight.
Fundamentally this is how many of Trump’s supporters have decided to think about the situation: It is the late, late republic, or else a Renaissance-Italy den of wolves — and with things this far gone in corruption, “the worse, the better” makes some sense.
But as the president’s approval ratings amply demonstrate, most of America doesn’t share that sentiment. And I’m not sure if Trump’s base really does, either, which is why his talk of “treason” and “civil war” is more a reality-TV show than a Rubicon.
So what we have under Trump, at the moment, isn’t a successful scouring, the nemesis that D.C. hubris richly merited. It’s a populist revolt whose champion, our ridiculous president, is too narcissistic and incontinent to persuade anyone outside his base that he cares about the common good. And so long as it pretends otherwise, American conservatism won’t just be enabling another crime; it will be making a mistake.
The focus on the whistle-blower is one of several ways the White House has addressed the complaint and the phone call at the center of it.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Tuesday kept his focus on an anonymous whistle-blower, asking why he was not “entitled to interview” the person, a day after he said the White House was trying to find out the person’s identity, despite institutional directives and confidentiality protections. 
In addition to interviewing the “so-called ‘Whistleblower,’” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Tuesday, he would also like to interview “the person who gave all of the false information to him.” On Sunday, Mr. Trump tweeted, “Like every American, I deserve to meet my accuser.”
Mr. Trump’s focus on the whistle-blower is one of several ways the White House has addressed the complaint — which alleged that Mr. Trump was using his office for personal gain — and the phone call at the center of it between Mr. Trump and President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine. Mr. Trump has repeatedly defended his conversation with Mr. Zelensky as “perfect.” 
Mr. Trump is particularly focused on the source of the information the whistle-blower disclosed and the fact that the whistle-blower’s most serious allegations were not witnessed firsthand.
But witnessing actions is not a requirement for filing a complaint, according to the inspector general of the intelligence community, which said on Monday in a release that a whistle-blower “need not possess firsthand information in order to file a complaint or information with respect to an urgent concern.”
Although Mr. Trump wants to learn the identity of the whistle-blower, policies have been devised to prevent that. 
“The law and policy supports protection of the identity of the whistle-blower from disclosure and from retaliation,” Mark Zaid, a lawyer representing the whistle-blower, has said. “No exceptions exist for any individual.”
House Democrats announced an impeachment inquiry last week into the allegations before the full complaint and the reconstructed transcript were released. 
Since then, the House has subpoenaed Mr. Trump’s private lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani. Mr. Giuliani’s name comes up multiple times in the July 25 conversation between the president and Mr. Zelensky, and he has publicly acknowledged trying to gather damaging information on Democrats from Ukrainian officials, specifically targeting former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., a leading Democratic presidential candidate for the 2020 race against Mr. Trump.
Mr. Giuliani did not say how he planned to respond to the subpoena, if at all. House Democrats have warned Trump administration officials not to stonewall their investigation. And Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said on Monday that if the House impeached Mr. Trump, “I would have no choice but to take it up.” It was the first time Mr. McConnell confirmed that the Senate would have to hold a trial and was a sign that the fallout from the phone call was not likely to disappear.
House investigators have arranged to meet privately with the whistle-blower, although a date has not been set. 
The president flagrantly violates the social platform’s rules. It’s time to bar him. 
It’s almost as if Donald Trump is trying to get impeached.
By Twitter, I mean. 
That’s where the twitchy fingers of the president of the United States have been working overtime to try to get him tossed off the digital communications service by posting all kinds of rule-breaking things and often in all caps with lots of exclamation marks — just so we don’t miss them.
But just as the internet companies have been gifted with a big hug of a law, Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which extends them broad immunity from controversial content that is posted on their platforms, Mr. Trump has been given an epic pass on Twitter for whatever he does. 
Why? Basically, he’s been deemed newsworthy by the company.
[Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]
True enough. But that means that every day and literally twice on Sunday, it’s more incendiary tweets and rage-filled tweets and appalling tweets and reckless tweets and misleading tweets and inaccurate tweets and really inaccurate tweets. And the many lies as tweets — so, so many tweet lies.
That’s the good part, because while many of those tweets barely skirt the line Twitter has drawn that pretty much everyone else must mind, many cross it, and President Tweeter remains unconcerned by a banishment that will never come.
Over the weekend Mr. Trump sank to a new low when he delivered a message — while cleverly hiding behind a quote from a controversial (and I am being kind here) pastor named Robert Jeffress — about the possibility of a civil war should he be impeached. 
Read the tweet: “ … If the Democrats are successful in removing the President from office (which they will never be), it will cause a Civil War like fracture in this Nation from which our Country will never heal. Pastor Robert Jeffress @FoxNews.”
Setting aside the fact that this country did survive the Civil War and major political upheavals like the resignation of President Richard Nixon, this was yet another egregious example of the kind of bad behavior that Mr. Trump is allowed to exhibit that no one else can get away with on the platform.
More to the point, the president of the United States of America was able — without any consequence — to suggest there would be a domestic war that could result in deaths if he were subject to rules and laws — such as the whistle-blower statutes.
The trick was that the tweet’s message was implicit rather than explicit. And that is why Twitter did not remove the tweet, as it certainly could do. The company’s weak response shows how utterly incapable it is in dealing with these thorny issues.
It so happens that in recent weeks, including at a fancy-pants Washington dinner party this past weekend, I have been testing my companions with a hypothetical scenario. My premise has been to ask what Twitter management should do if Mr. Trump loses the 2020 election and tweets inaccurately the next day that there had been widespread fraud and, moreover, that people should rise up in armed insurrection to keep him in office.
Most people I have posed this question to have had the same response: Throw Mr. Trump off Twitter for inciting violence. A few have said he should be only temporarily suspended to quell any unrest. Very few said he should be allowed to continue to use the service without repercussions if he was no longer the president. One high-level government official asked me what I would do. My answer: I would never have let it get this bad to begin with.
Now my hypothetical game has come much closer to reality. In using a quote to hide behind what he was actually trying to say, Mr. Trump was testing the system, using a tactic that is enormously dangerous. 
It’s important to stress that what Mr. Trump is doing is no different from what various autocrats and haters around the world are doing with social media platforms to push their malevolent agendas. With this latest move by the troller in chief, with no reaction from Twitter, it’s official that the medium has been hijacked by those who want to take advantage of its porous and sloppy rules. 
To be fair, I doubt the Twitter chief executive and founder Jack Dorsey could have imagined that a United States president would be so shameless and willing to cause harm by using the digital tools he built.
Well, Mr. Trump has — over and over again. And so it is incumbent on the giant social platforms to prevent the president from dangerously weaponizing their tools. If not, when the history of this era is written, they will be judged as completely failing in their duties as citizens.
This is not to say that this is an easy situation for Twitter. I, too, would be daunted by the incredible responsibility that has been thrust upon the company. But here we are.
So, to help them figure it out, let me end with the words of Abraham Lincoln, who knew a thing or two about what civil wars really mean: “Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith, let us, to the end, dare to do our duty as we understand it.”
The president’s brazen attempt at cheating has taken “decide it at the ballot box” off the menu. Impeachment is imperative. 
“I think the American people are going to have a chance to decide this at the ballot box in November 2020,” Beto O’Rourke said in March, neatly expressing prevailing Democratic opinion on the question of impeaching President Trump, “and perhaps that’s the best way for us to resolve these outstanding questions.”
This is no longer a tenable position. The president’s bungled bid to coerce Ukraine’s leader into helping the Trump 2020 re-election campaign smear a rival struck “decide it at the ballot box” off the menu of reasonable opinion forever. Mr. Trump’s brazen attempt to cheat his way into a second term stands so scandalously exposed that there can be no assurance of a fair election if he’s allowed to stay in office. Resolving the question of the president’s fitness at the ballot box isn’t really an option, much less the best option, when the question boils down to whether the ballot box will be stuffed.
Impeachment is therefore imperative, not only to protect the integrity of next year’s elections but to secure America’s continued democratic existence. If the House does its job, it will fall to Senate Republicans to reveal, in their decision to convict (or not), their preferred flavor of republic: constitutional or banana.
Mike Murphy, a Republican election consultant, recently remarked that “one Republican senator told me if it was a secret vote, 30 Republican senators would vote to impeach Trump.” Everyone understands that Mr. Trump is wildly popular with conservative voters, and that Senate Republicans would rather not invite primary challengers by alienating them. But when the legitimacy and preservation of our democracy are at stake, striving to keep a Senate seat safe through craven betrayal of the American people could come at a catastrophic price to the country.
[The big debates, distilled. This guide will put in context what people are saying about the pressing issues of the week. Sign up for our new newsletter, Debatable.]
It is now impossible to deny that Mr. Trump pressed Ukraine’s president, Volodymyr Zelensky, to dig up dirt on Joe Biden while holding up congressionally appropriated military assistance intended to help Ukraine stave off Russian aggression. Mr. Trump loudly admitted it, and the summary of his July phone conversation with Mr. Zelensky and the whistle-blower report cast it in the worst possible light. If Mr. Trump’s willing to cop to this, all while promoting an Infowars-level conspiracy theory to justify it, the American public can reasonably suspect that he’s abusing the powers of his office in other ways to fix the election in his favor.
Mr. Trump has supplied American voters with overwhelming reason to doubt that any election he participates in can be fair. That’s why he can’t be allowed to run for any public office, much less the presidency, ever again. 
The president’s infamous call with Mr. Zelensky took place the day after the special counsel Robert Mueller testified before Congress about his inquiry into the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia and Russian interference in the 2016 election. If Mr. Trump was elated that the testimony failed to unleash immediate impeachment hearings, he was also unnerved by the prospect of facing an indictment at the end of his time in office. The president knows he’s beyond the reach of criminal prosecution only so long as he commands the awesome powers of the executive branch. 
The content of the “favors” Mr. Trump asked of the Ukrainian president underscore his feral resolve to barricade himself inside the Oval Office for at least five more years. His purpose in pressuring Mr. Zelensky to inquire into the Ukrainian whereabouts of an imaginary server and to beat the bushes for evidence of corruption involving Mr. Biden’s family was to drum up “evidence” that Russian election interference and his role in abetting it was nothing but a frame job fabricated by Ukrainians, in cahoots with the Democratic Party, to throw the 2016 election to Hillary Clinton.
It can be hard to grasp the point of all this. The point is that Mr. Trump is a great patriot who did nothing wrong, while the Democrat he views as the biggest threat to his continuing legal immunity is an illegitimate traitor. You see, if Mr. Mueller’s entire investigation was nothing but the continuation of a fabulously intricate conspiracy theory meant to undermine America’s democratic sovereignty, then Mr. Trump had to obstruct it to defend the republic. If Joe Biden was centrally involved in it, then he’s the corrupt threat to democracy. It’s a paranoid piece of fiction that would make Thomas Pynchon, or Vladimir Putin, proud.
This is the lunacy behind Mr. Trump’s willingness to casually endanger Ukraine’s ability to defend itself against Russia. Worse, by ordering the attorney general, the secretary of state and his personal fixer to lend counterfeit substance to this ridiculous effort, he has untethered American diplomacy and law enforcement from reality. 
If the House goes through with impeachment but the Senate acquits, Mr. Trump’s lawlessness will have been lavishly rewarded. He will take it as a signal that absolutely anything goes — especially given the Senate’s failure to act in any meaningful way on election security. Should he win, a sizable majority of the public will see it as an electoral coup and deny the validity of his claim to power. It’s easy to imagine enormous mass protests that bring Washington to a halt, dangerous indeterminacy in the continuity of government, and worse.
If Senate Republicans hold their majority through an election that stinks of corruption, they’ll be dogged by the same crisis of legitimacy. If they nevertheless go on to use their dubious authority to continue stacking the courts and shielding the president from accountability, Americans won’t be wrong to conclude that our democracy has crumbled and that the United States has devolved into one of the world’s many soft-authoritarian kleptocracies claiming popular legitimacy from behind a cheap veneer of rigged elections. It can definitely happen here.
Senate Republicans who would vote in secret to remove Mr. Trump need to finally come to the defense of their country and do it in public. The odds of Republicans holding the Senate in a clean race are strong. But senators who choose to ignore the duties of their office in order to protect Mr. Trump will communicate with ringing clarity that they don’t care about having a fair election; that they don’t care whether the American people have really granted them the authority to govern; and that they think their own voters don’t care about any of this, either.
But the American people, Democrats and Republicans alike, do care. The fainthearted lions of the Senate ought to bear in mind that a defiant citizenry inflamed by indignation and jealous of its rights can overwhelm a corrupt regime’s dirty electoral plans. An election with an impeached Donald Trump at the top of the Republican ticket is an invitation to an electoral uprising that should haunt Mitch McConnell’s dreams. 
Senate Republicans owe us the courage of their private convictions. If they can’t find it, they should at least be wary of assuming that cultlike devotion to the president will allow them to weather the coming storm, or that, in the end, they will be rewarded for a faithless calculation to regard their constituents with contempt.
BRUSSELS — This summer, just after he visited the White House for the second time, President Andrzej Duda of Poland held forth about how much he admired President Trump’s transactional style.
“I must tell you that in this respect I find it very easy and good to cooperate with President Donald Trump,” Mr. Duda said in an interview in Warsaw. “Because he’s very down to earth, very concrete. He tells me what he wants, he asks me what he can get from us.”
Given that well-established style of wheeling and dealing, the revelations about Mr. Trump’s phone call with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine — in which Mr. Trump asked the Ukrainian leader for a ‘‘favor,’’ to dig up dirt on a political opponent — have reinforced impressions of the American president.
Regardless of impeachment, for now, at least, many analysts and media commentators abroad say they assume that Mr. Trump will remain president. But some wondered if this was perhaps ‘‘the deal too many,’’ as the headline on the cover of the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel read, showing Mr. Trump on the phone.
“Presidents always ask for things, but what’s different is the nature of the ask here,” said Simon Jackman, head of the United States Studies Center at the University of Sydney, Australia, the latest country Mr. Trump has appeared to pressure for renewed investigations of his political foes.
“It’s not about contributing with defense for an operation we might be doing together, or for a trade matter,’’ he added. ‘‘This is: ‘What were the circumstances under which Australia felt compelled to pass on this intelligence about election interference that helped me become president?’ We’re in a whole new category.”
Still, in Australia, there was little surprise. The same sentiment prevailed in much of Europe, along with a gloomy sense of inevitability among critics that nothing much seemed to damage Mr. Trump.
Many expected him to survive until the end of his term and very possibly be strengthened for re-election by the impeachment ordeal, which could let him trumpet his victory over the “Washington elite.”
“We all know that impeachment is a political affair, not a legal one,” said Jan Techau, an analyst with the German Marshall Fund in Berlin. “If it keeps the pressure on Trump, whose reactions already show the strain, it could cost him votes. But if it falls like a soufflé it can embolden him, as the golden one who can’t be touched.”
In Germany, which Mr. Trump loves to criticize, Mr. Techau said, “there’s lots of hope impeachment will succeed, but no confidence that the Democrats can run this thing efficiently.’’
‘‘Germans are puzzled that there is no natural leader of the opposition,’’ he added, ‘‘and it feels like Trump so dominates the stage there’s no room for anyone else.”
French reaction has been muted. Impeachment has not been on the front pages, with the media consumed with the death of former President Jacques Chirac. The center-left Le Monde editorialized a bit wearily that impeachment was forced on the Democrats, but probably without result.
“Confronted with this norm-breaking president, the Democrats were obligated to set a limit beyond which they considered that the counter-powers, the famous ‘checks and balances’ of the American system, could no longer function: in their eyes, this limit had been reached,” the paper said.
But François Heisbourg, a French analyst, noted that the notion of impeachment was itself somewhat unknown abroad.
“Nobody outside the U.S. understands impeachment,” he said. “Many would be chuffed if it works but everyone assumes it will strengthen Trump and not weaken him, which of course may be wrong.”
More important, Mr. Heisbourg said, was the impact on Ukraine and Mr. Zelensky’s standing with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and French President Emmanuel Macron, both of whom he criticized even more harshly than Mr. Trump did on their telephone call, even though the Europeans provide more economic aid to Ukraine than does Washington.
The partial phone transcript hurts Mr. Trump’s relationship with other leaders, who can no longer trust the privacy of their conversations, but “it has made Zelensky look incredibly naïve and even stupid, which he is not,” Mr. Heisbourg said.
“Zelensky didn’t just let Trump diss Merkel and Macron but does it himself,’’ Mr. Heisbourg said. ‘‘And when people say they won’t hold it against him, they’re wrong. Macron and Merkel won’t appreciate it, and in one fell swoop, Zelensky has lost a lot of good will.”
Mr. Techau agreed. “This is damaging for Ukraine, because it reinforces the image of this country as a hopeless case, where all these external powers mingle and trample and nothing comes out well,” he said. “It damages the feeling of solidarity with Ukraine, already lagging.”
Russia cited a victory not only in the tensions displayed between Mr. Zelensky and President Trump, but also between Mr. Zelensky and Ukraine’s main European supporters, especially in Germany and France, whom he needlessly insulted in the phone call.
In Moscow, where power in office is routinely traded for political favors and personal profit, there was glee.
The Russians, who annexed Crimea and are deeply engaged in the fight for Ukraine’s east, like to argue that the West is just as cynical as they are, and often cite Mr. Trump as evidence.
And Russia has seized on the scandal to promote its longstanding theme that Ukraine and Mr. Zelensky are vassals of the United States.
On Sunday, Dmitri К. Kiselyov, the anchor of the Kremlin’s flagship propaganda news show, “Vesti Nedeli” or “News of the Week,” described Mr. Zelensky’s visit to the United States as a “catastrophe.” He said that Mr. Zelensky was “literally sucked into the funnel of intra-American fights between Trump and his enemies.”
“As a result, Zelensky now has no chance of building good relations neither with Trump nor with Biden,” said Mr. Kiselyov. “For Biden, Zelensky will forever remain the man who steadfastly promised Trump to relaunch the anti-corruption case against his son.”
Mr. Kiselyov noted that Mr. Zelensky offended Ms. Merkel, too. “As a result, Germany’s Spiegel already writes about insults against Merkel and only ‘pieces of relations’ with Ukraine. So now Trump, Biden and Merkel have all been removed from the list of Zelensky’s friends. How could he do it so quickly? An outstanding result!”
Norbert Röttgen, chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the German Parliament, was disgusted. The phone transcript “bitterly documents how Trump, behind the scenes, exploits his power over a state president who is dependent on American support and works for his private interests, his election campaign, and against Germany and Europe,” he wrote on his Facebook page.
In Poland, despite its president’s praise of Mr. Trump, not everyone is a fan of his deal-making style.
“In my opinion the government is silent on the issue because the kind of transactional offer he offered to Ukraine is quite similar to the way he treats Polish politicians,” said Ryszard Schnepf, a former Polish ambassador to Washington.
While he might not ask for dirt on political opponents, Mr. Schnepf said, Mr. Trump’s approach to foreign policy was “compromising, unbalanced and one sided.”
In the Arab world, reports of Mr. Trump’s efforts to extract favors from foreign leaders have generally been met with shrugs, not least because many people in the region are used to their leaders behaving in similar ways.
Leaders of the Arab world’s nondemocratic governments commonly use their offices for personal gain, and in the monarchies, there is often no clear distinction between public and private money.
The former chief, accused of a hate crime after allegedly slamming a black teenager’s head into a doorjamb, has used “derogatory racial terms,” his lawyer said.
A former police chief in New Jersey who is on trial on a federal hate-crime charge after he allegedly slammed a black teenager’s head into a doorjamb, once called President Trump “the last hope for white people,” according to a recording recently played for jurors. 
In the 2016 recording, which federal officials shared with The New York Times, Frank Nucera Jr., the former chief, can be heard saying that Mr. Trump was the last hope because “Hillary will give it to all the minorities to get a vote. That’s the truth! I’m telling you.”
The Trump comment was surreptitiously recorded by a Police Department colleague just months before the 2016 presidential election. 
The recording was played in court last week by prosecutors in an effort to show that the alleged attack in September 2016 by the former chief on a guest — an 18-year-old black man —  at a Ramada Hotel in Bordentown, N.J., was motivated by Mr. Nucera’s “intense racial animus.” 
In 2015, Mr. Nucera had told a colleague that African-Americans were “like ISIS, they have no value,” according to a criminal complaint filed in Federal District Court in New Jersey. “They should line them all up and mow ’em down,” he said, according to the complaint.
Mr. Nucera’s lawyer, Rocco Cipparone, said in an interview that his client did not commit a hate crime, although he acknowledged that Mr. Nucera made the Trump remark and has used “inappropriate language, including derogatory racial terms” in the past. 
“These are embarrassing, ugly words, but if Frank Nucera did not strike this man, then the words are equally irrelevant,” Mr. Cipparone said. “It is not a crime, even for a police officer, to use that language. It’s not socially acceptable, it’s not appropriate, but it’s not criminal.”
The United States attorney’s office for the District of New Jersey declined to comment on the case. 
As a result of the episode, Mr. Nucera, 62, resigned in 2017 from the Police Department in Bordentown, a township about 60 miles southwest of New York City. Aside from the hate crime charge, Mr. Nucera is charged with depriving a suspect’s rights and making false statements to the F.B.I., according to the criminal complaint. 
If convicted, Mr. Nucera faces up to 20 years in prison. 
On Tuesday, prosecutors rested their case, and Mr. Nucera told the judge that he would not take the stand. A verdict in the three-week trial could come this week. 
According to court papers, a manager at the hotel had called the police to report that two guests — the 18-year-old man and a 16-year-old girl, who is also black — who did not pay for their room the night before were swimming in the hotel pool. When the police arrived, according to court papers, the girl, who was not identified because she is a minor, and the man, identified at trial as Timothy Stroye, resisted arrest. 
Mr. Stroye was eventually handcuffed, the complaint said, and an officer began walking him to a police car. Mr. Nucera then approached them from behind and pushed Mr. Stroye’s head into a metal doorjamb that separated the hallway from the stairwell at the hotel. 
Hours later, Mr. Nucera, using a racial slur, suggested to a colleague, who was recording the conversation, that Mr. Stroye and the girl were from Trenton, according to the complaint. Bordentown, which is about a 15-minute drive south of Trenton, has about 12,000 residents, most of whom are white, census data shows. The nearly 84,000 residents in Trenton are mostly black. 
Mr. Stroye could not be reached for comment. 
Michael Theokas, a spokesman for Bordentown Township, would not say whether Mr. Nucera had been disciplined by the Police Department as a result of his actions on that night. 
WASHINGTON — The Oval Office meeting this past March began, as so many had, with President Trump fuming about migrants. But this time he had a solution. As White House advisers listened astonished, he ordered them to shut down the entire 2,000-mile border with Mexico — by noon the next day.
The advisers feared the president’s edict would trap American tourists in Mexico, strand children at schools on both sides of the border and create an economic meltdown in two countries. Yet they also knew how much the president’s zeal to stop immigration had sent him lurching for solutions, one more extreme than the next.
[Update: Trump denies considering a border moat.]
Privately, the president had often talked about fortifying a border wall with a water-filled trench, stocked with snakes or alligators, prompting aides to seek a cost estimate. He wanted the wall electrified, with spikes on top that could pierce human flesh. After publicly suggesting that soldiers shoot migrants if they threw rocks, the president backed off when his staff told him that was illegal. But later in a meeting, aides recalled, he suggested that they shoot migrants in the legs to slow them down. That’s not allowed either, they told him.
“The president was frustrated and I think he took that moment to hit the reset button,” said Thomas D. Homan, who had served as Mr. Trump’s acting director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, recalling that week in March. “The president wanted it to be fixed quickly.”
Mr. Trump’s order to close the border was a decision point that touched off a frenzied week of presidential rages, round-the-clock staff panic and far more White House turmoil than was known at the time. By the end of the week, the seat-of-the-pants president had backed off his threat but had retaliated with the beginning of a purge of the aides who had tried to contain him.
Today, as Mr. Trump is surrounded by advisers less willing to stand up to him, his threat to seal off the country from a flood of immigrants remains active. “I have absolute power to shut down the border,” he said in an interview this summer with The New York Times.
This article is based on interviews with more than a dozen White House and administration officials directly involved in the events of that week in March. They were granted anonymity to describe sensitive conversations with the president and top officials in the government.
In the Oval Office that March afternoon, a 30-minute meeting extended to more than two hours as Mr. Trump’s team tried desperately to placate him.
“You are making me look like an idiot!” Mr. Trump shouted, adding in a profanity, as multiple officials in the room described it. “I ran on this. It’s my issue.”
Among those in the room were Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary at the time; Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state; Kevin K. McAleenan, the Customs and Border Protection chief at the time; and Stephen Miller, the White House aide who, more than anyone, had orchestrated Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda. Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff was also there, along with Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law, and other senior staff.
Ms. Nielsen, a former aide to George W. Bush brought into the department by John F. Kelly, the president’s former chief of staff, was in a perilous position. She had always been viewed with suspicion by the president, who told aides she was “a Bushie,” and part of the “deep state” who once contributed to a group that supported Jeb Bush’s presidential campaign.
Mr. Trump had routinely berated Ms. Nielsen as ineffective and, worse — at least in his mind — not tough-looking enough. “Lou Dobbs hates you, Ann Coulter hates you, you’re making me look bad,” Mr. Trump would tell her, referring to the Fox Business Network host and the conservative commentator.
The happiest he had been with Ms. Nielsen was a few months earlier, when American border agents had fired tear gas into Mexico to try to stop migrants from crossing into the United States. Human rights organizations condemned the move, but Mr. Trump loved it. More often, though, she drew the president’s scorn.
That March day, he was furious at Mr. Pompeo, too, for having cut a deal with Mexico to allow the United States to reject some asylum seekers — a plan Mr. Trump said was clearly failing.
A complete shutdown of the border, Mr. Trump said, was the only way.
Ms. Nielsen had tried reasoning with the president on many occasions. When she stood up to him during a cabinet meeting the previous spring, he excoriated her and she almost resigned.
Now, she tried again to reason with him.
We can close the border, she told the president, but it’s not going to fix anything. People will still be permitted to claim asylum.
But Mr. Trump was unmoved. Even Mr. Kushner, who had developed relationships with Mexican officials and now sided with Ms. Nielsen, could not get through to him.
“All you care about is your friends in Mexico,” the president snapped, according to people in the room. “I’ve had it. I want it done at noon tomorrow.”
The president’s advisers left the meeting in a near panic.
Every year more than $200 billion worth of American exports flow across the Mexican border. Closing it would wreak havoc on American farmers and automakers, among many others. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said in an interview at the time that a border shutdown would have “a potentially catastrophic economic impact on our country.”
That night, White House advisers succeeded in convincing the president to give them a reprieve, but only for a week, until the following Friday. That gave them very little time to change the president’s mind.
They started by pressuring their Mexican counterparts to rapidly increase apprehensions of migrants. Mr. Kushner and others in the West Wing showered the president with emails proving that the Mexicans had already started apprehending more migrants before they could enter the United States.
White House advisers encouraged a stream of corporate executives, Republican lawmakers and officials from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to tell Mr. Trump how damaging a border closure would be.
Mr. Miller, meanwhile, saw an opportunity.
It was his view that the president needed to completely overhaul the Homeland Security Department and get rid of senior officials who he believed were thwarting efforts to block immigrants. Although many were the president’s handpicked aides, Mr. Miller told him they had become part of the problem by constantly citing legal hurdles.
Ms. Nielsen, who regularly found herself telling Mr. Trump why he couldn’t have what he wanted, was an obvious target. When the president demanded “flat black” paint on his border wall, she said it would cost an additional $1 million per mile. When he ordered wall construction sped up, she said they needed permission from property owners. Take the land, Mr. Trump would say, and let them sue us.
When Ms. Nielsen tried to get him to focus on something other than the border, the president grew impatient. During a briefing on the need for new legal authority to take down drones, Mr. Trump cut her off midsentence.
“Kirstjen, you didn’t hear me the first time, honey,” Mr. Trump said, according to two people familiar with the conversation. “Shoot ’em down. Sweetheart, just shoot ’em out of the sky, O.K.?”
But the problem went deeper than Ms. Nielsen, Mr. Miller believed. L. Francis Cissna, the head of the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services until earlier this year, regularly pushed back on Mr. Miller’s demand for a “culture change” at the agency, where Mr. Miller believed asylum officers were bleeding hearts, too quick to extend protections to immigrants.
They needed to start with the opposite point of view, Mr. Miller told him, and start turning people away.
John Mitnick, the homeland security general counsel who often raised legal concerns about Mr. Trump’s immigration policies, was also on Mr. Miller’s blacklist. Mr. Miller had also turned against Ronald D. Vitiello, a top official at Customs and Border Protection whom the president had nominated to lead Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
By midweek, the campaign to change Mr. Trump’s mind about closing the border seemed to be working.
Maybe there’s another way to do this, the president told Ms. Nielsen. How about if I impose tariffs on the Mexicans, or threaten to impose tariffs? Tariffs are great.
But the staff worried that his retreat would only be temporary. The president never really let go of his obsessions.
They were right. On a trip to California late in the week, Mr. Trump turned to Mr. McAleenan, the Customs and Border Protection chief, with a new idea: He wanted him to stop letting migrants cross the border at all, with no exceptions. If you get into any trouble for it, Mr. Trump told him, I’ll pardon you.
Once on the ground, Mr. Trump met up with Ms. Nielsen and worked a room filled with Border Patrol agents. Start turning away migrants at the border, he told them. My message to you is, keep them all out, the president said. Every single one of them. The country is full.
After the president left the room, Mr. McAleenan told the agents to ignore the president. You absolutely do not have the authority to stop processing migrants altogether, he warned.
As she and her staff flew back to Washington that Friday evening, Ms. Nielsen called the president. She knew he was angry with her.
“Sir, I know you’re really frustrated,” she told him. The president invited her to meet with him on Sunday in the White House residence.
Ms. Nielsen knew that Mr. Miller wanted her out, so she spent the flight huddled with aides on a strategy for getting control of the border, a Hail Mary pass. She called it the “Six C’s” — Congress, Courts, Communications, Countries, Criminals, Cartels.
Unbeknown to her, Ms. Nielsen’s staff started work on her letter of resignation.
When Ms. Nielsen presented her plan to Mr. Trump at the White House, he dismissed it and told her what he really needed was a cement wall.
“Sir,” she said, “I literally don’t think that’s even possible.” They couldn’t build that now even if it would work, which it wouldn’t, Ms. Nielsen told him. The designs for steel barriers had long since been finalized, the contracts bid and signed.
The president responded that it was time for her to go, Mr. Trump recalled later. “Kirstjen, I want to make a change,” he said.
The president said he would wait a week to announce her resignation, to leave time for a transition. But before Ms. Nielsen had left the White House that day, the word was leaking out. By evening, Mr. Trump was tweeting about it.
“Secretary of Homeland Security Kirstjen Nielsen will be leaving her position,” Trump wrote, “and I would like to thank her for her service.”
The dismissal was a turning point for Mr. Trump’s immigration agenda, the start of the purge that ushered in a team that embraced Mr. Miller’s policies.
Mr. Trump quickly dismissed Claire M. Grady, the homeland security under secretary, and moved Mr. McAleenan to take Ms. Nielsen’s old job. Within two months, Mr. Cissna was out as well, replaced by Kenneth T. Cuccinelli II, a former Virginia attorney general and an immigration hard-liner.
On Aug. 12, Mr. Cuccinelli announced that the government would deny green cards for immigrants deemed likely to become “public charges.” Nine days later, Mr. McAleenan announced regulations to allow immigrant families to be detained indefinitely.
In the months since the purge, the president has repeated his threat of placing tariffs on Mexico to spur aggressive enforcement at the border. Mr. McAleenan and Mr. Cuccinelli have embraced restrictive asylum rules. And the Pentagon approved shifting $3.6 billion to build the wall.
Mr. Trump has continued to face resistance in the courts and public outrage about his immigration agenda. But the people who tried to restrain him have largely been replaced.
In the interview with The Times this past summer, Mr. Trump said he had seriously considered sealing the border during March, but acknowledged that doing so would have been “very severe.”
“The problem you have with the laws the way they are, we can have 100,000 of our soldiers standing up there — they can’t do a thing,” Mr. Trump said ruefully.
The impeachment inquiry is laying him bare. It’s not a pretty sight.
I was based in Washington and reported from Capitol Hill during Bill Clinton’s impeachment, which was the last time the country entered waters like these. It was ugly, and Democrats and Republicans traded vicious words.
But Clinton never publicly accused his detractors of treason or floated the idea that one of them be arrested on those grounds, as Donald Trump just did with Adam Schiff.
Clinton and his defenders raised the specter of a “vast right-wing conspiracy,” to use Hillary Clinton’s infamous phrase, thus asserting that he was being persecuted for his politics, not punished for his misdeeds.
But they didn’t insist, as Trump and his defenders routinely do, that a vital part of the federal government was an evil cabal intent on undermining our democratic processes, which is Trump’s self-serving characterization of the intelligence community. Their central strategy wasn’t to ignite a full-blown crisis of confidence in the institutions of government. They weren’t serving dire notice, as Trump essentially is, that if the president goes down, he’s taking everyone and everything else with him.
The Clintons possessed and projected a moral arrogance that was laughably oxymoronic under the circumstances. And they and other prominent Democrats junked the party’s supposed concern for women’s empowerment to savage Monica Lewinsky, Paula Jones and others who came forward with claims about the president’s extramarital sexual activity, including serious accusations of sexual violence.
But they didn’t equate the potential fall of the president with the fall of the Republic. They didn’t go full apocalypse. Bill Clinton didn’t prophesy that his impeachment would lead to a kind of “civil war” from which the country would “never heal,” as Trump did by tweeting an evangelical pastor’s comments on Fox News along those lines.
I wrote last week that the prospect of Trump’s impeachment terrified me, and one of the main reasons I cited was what we’re seeing now: his histrionic response, which is untethered from any sense of honor, civic concern or real patriotism.
[Get a more personal take on politics, newsmakers and more with Frank Bruni’s exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]
He’s not like most of his predecessors in the White House, who had some limits, at least a few scruples and the capacity to feel shame. Their self-pity wasn’t this unfathomably deep, their delusions of martyrdom this insanely grand. “There has been no President in the history of our Country who has been treated so badly as I have,” he tweeted last week, and the violins have wailed only louder and weepier since.
While there were fellow narcissists among his forebears, was there a single nihilist like Trump? I doubt it, and so the current waters are in fact uncharted, because the ship of state has a sort of madman at its helm.
That he’s fighting back by impugning his critics’ motives, stonewalling investigators and carping about the media shouldn’t disturb anyone, not if we’re being grown-ups. Richard Nixon, confronted with his impeachment, thrashed and seethed. Clinton assembled a war room in an effort to outwit his adversaries. That’s the nature of politics. That’s the right of the accused.
But in the mere week since a formal impeachment inquiry was announced, Trump has already gone much farther than that and behaved in ways that explode precedent, offend decency and boggle the mind. We’re fools if we don’t brace for more and worse.
For grotesque example, he has suggested — repeatedly — that government officials who tattled about his crooked conversation with the Ukrainian president are spies who deserve to be executed. Had any other president done that, many Americans would speak of nothing else for the next month.
But from Trump, such a horror wasn’t even surprising, and it competed for attention with so many other outrages that it was dulled, the way so much of his unconscionable behavior is. When you churn out a disgrace a minute and no one expects anything nobler, you’re inoculated by your own awfulness.
He has taken his vilification of the media to new depths, content on this front, as on others, to pump Americans full of a toxic cynicism so long as he profits from it. He and his handmaidens have disseminated distortion after distortion, lie upon lie, including the claim that deep-state officials tweaked the criteria for whistle-blowers just so that someone could ensnare him.
They have instructed Americans not to believe their own eyes, their own ears, their own intelligence. They mean to put truth itself up for grabs, no matter the fallout.
Lindsey Graham, the sycophant of the century, called the whistle-blower’s complaint a setup, as if it didn’t rest on the sturdy foundation of a reconstructed transcript — released by the White House — that shows Trump imploring a foreign leader to do political dirty work for him.
Trump keeps saying it was a “perfect” call, which is like seeing Dom Pérignon in a puddle of sewage. Then again, his presidency has long depended on such optical illusions.
There’s light, though, and it’s this: As corrosive as his tirades are, they may also be what does him in. He’s poised to take this persecution complex too far.
Already, there has been a swell of support for impeachment, according to new polls released by CNN and Monmouth University, and I bet that trend continues as revelations of his wrongdoing cascade and as he wildly overreacts.
That probably wouldn’t be enough to get Republican senators to convict him and remove him from office, should the House follow through with impeachment and a Senate trial ensue. But it would affect November 2020.
He’s in a bind, because his burn-down-the-house defense against impeachment makes the best case that he must be impeached — that a leader with no bounds and no bottom can’t be allowed to rage on unimpeded. The impeachment inquiry is laying Trump bare. As scary as that is for us, it may be even scarier for him.
“Treason” is a word the president has increasingly used when talking about his critics.
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s language has changed in the days since House Democrats began their impeachment inquiry. 
The presidential Twitter feed still has its share of complaints about the Federal Reserve, punch-back nicknames and favorable polls from friends such as Breitbart. But now Mr. Trump also talks about the civil war that could break out if impeachment proceedings against him continue, a whistle-blower he regards as a spy and, increasingly, treason.
His main targets have been the whistle-blower and Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee. And he has used the word more than a dozen times on Twitter, beginning last September when he castigated The New York Times for publishing an Op-Ed article written by an anonymous administration official that questioned the president’s ability to govern.
The last time an American was convicted of treason was in the 1940s, in part because the Constitution defines it narrowly as levying war against the United States or giving aid or comfort to an enemy during wartime. But as the impeachment inquiry unfolds, Mr. Trump has used the term to accuse people of disloyalty and signal to his supporters that his political opponents are un-American. 
The accusation is nothing new in the right-wing vocabulary — Ann Coulter, the president’s sometimes adviser, sometimes adversary — wrote a book on the topic. Mark S. Zaid, a Washington lawyer who represents the whistle-blower, reviewed the book in 2003, saying it contained revelations that would “shock anyone to the left of Attila the Hun.”
But experts see a civic danger in the president frequently and falsely calling out what he labels treasonous behavior. Carlton F.W. Larson, a professor at the University of California at Davis School of Law and an expert on treason, said the president had cheapened the word through overuse. 
“It is a complete debasement of political discourse where ordinary political disagreements are elevated to a level of capital crime,” Mr. Larson said. “If Trump ever did uncover an instance of true treason, no one would believe him because he has so debased the meaning of that word.” 
Mr. Trump first mentioned treason in connection with the whistle-blower last week in a talk at the United States Mission to the United Nations, contending that what the whistle-blower was doing was spying and lamenting that there used to be a punishment for that, presumably meaning execution. 
“I want to know who’s the person who gave the whistle-blower the information, because that’s close to a spy,” Mr. Trump said. “You know what we used to do in the old days when we were smart? Right? With spies and treason, right? We used to handle it a little differently than we do now.”
But what seems to have most provoked the president was Mr. Schiff’s opening statement at a House Intelligence Committee hearing last week when he gave his own interpretation of Mr. Trump’s July phone call with the Ukrainian president as a mobster issuing a veiled threat — and the president did not like it. 
“Rep. Adam Schiff illegally made up a FAKE & terrible statement, pretended it to be mine as the most important part of my call to the Ukrainian President, and read it aloud to Congress and the American people,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Monday. “It bore NO relationship to what I said on the call. Arrest for Treason?” 
This was just one outcome Mr. Trump said he wanted. A day earlier, the president said Mr. Schiff should be “questioned at the highest level for Fraud & Treason.” On Tuesday, he added that the congressman should be charged with making a false statement. 
“Oftentimes he uses a bazooka to swat a fly,” Christopher Ruddy, a friend of Mr. Trump’s and the chief executive of Newsmax Media, said in an interview, adding that he would like to see the president behave more “above the fray.” 
But Mr. Ruddy said he understood why the president had done it. “I think he sees the allegations against him as hyperbolic, so he responds back hyperbolically,” Mr. Ruddy said. 
Erin Perrine, a spokeswoman for the president’s re-election campaign, put it another way. “For two years Democrats and the media falsely accused President Trump of being a Russian agent,” she said. “It makes it difficult to take Democrats’ feelings being hurt seriously.” 
Still, over the past year, Mr. Trump has accused the Democrats of treason for opposing his immigration policies, and The Times again for reporting on cyberattacks in Russia. In May, he accused unnamed individuals of spying on his presidential campaign — an accusation he has levied at the Obama administration. Mr. Trump has used the phrase so often that it was a line of questioning at a news conference at the White House that month, when a journalist reminded Mr. Trump that treason was punishable by death. 
Mr. Trump nodded, then listed several people he believed had engaged in treasonous behavior, including James B. Comey, the former director of the F.B.I.; Andrew G. McCabe, the former acting F.B.I. director; and Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, both former F.B.I. officials. 
Mr. Trump also said that “probably people higher than that” had participated in an effort to undermine his election, alluding to claims he has made that Obama administration officials, and perhaps President Barack Obama himself, had participated in an effort to spy on his campaign. 
All of the people Mr. Trump named are people he feels should have had a loyalty to the office of the presidency, and whose comments about him he has taken personally. 
“I think a number of people,” Mr. Trump said. “And I think what you look is that they have unsuccessfully tried to take down the wrong person,” Mr. Trump added, referring to himself. 
“He seems to confuse lack of loyalty to himself with treason,” said Sheri Berman, a professor of political science at Barnard College, “thereby at the very least conflating the office of the presidency with the country as a whole.” 
In the past, Mr. Trump has defined treason as a crime with “long jail sentences” and, during the special counsel investigation into his campaign’s ties to Russia, he brought up the case of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, who were executed in 1953 after being found guilty of conspiracy to commit espionage. 
“When they say ‘treason,’ you know what treason is?” Mr. Trump asked reporters in 2017 as he defended his son, Donald Trump Jr., against criticism that he had met with a lawyer connected with the Russian government at Trump Tower to gather dirt on Hillary Clinton. “That’s Julius and Ethel Rosenberg for giving the atomic bomb, O.K.?” 
The Rosenbergs, who in fact were not convicted of treason, were prosecuted by Roy Cohn, a mentor of Mr. Trump’s. Mr. Cohn, who as a young aide to Senator Joseph McCarthy made his name by ensuring that the couple was sent to the electric chair, would later go on to coach Mr. Trump in the art of full-on assault of his enemies. 
“He’s been vicious to others in his protection of me,” Mr. Trump said in 1980 of his mentor, who was eventually disbarred for “unethical,” “unprofessional” and “particularly reprehensible” conduct. 
As Mr. Trump continues to emulate the bare-knuckle tactics he learned decades ago, he has alarmed Democrats who say his rantings against the whistle-blower will have a chilling effect in preventing people from coming forward in the future.
“This president’s comments about ‘spies and treason’ and ‘what we used to do in the old days’ are totally unacceptable and will do serious damage far beyond this news cycle,” Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, said on Twitter on Monday. “The whole reason we have whistle-blower protections is so intelligence professionals can report wrongdoing without fear of retaliation.”
Representative Maxine Waters, a California Democrat who has long been targeted by the president at his rallies — taunts she has said have led to death threats — said on Tuesday that Republicans had not done enough to curb Mr. Trump’s behavior. 
“I’m calling on the GOP to stop Trump’s filthy talk of whistleblowers being spies & using mob language implying they should be killed,” Ms. Waters said on Twitter. “Impeachment is not good enough for Trump.” 
 
The huge infusion of money confirms that President Trump is building an enormous war chest heading into the 2020 election.
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s re-election campaign and the Republican National Committee raised a combined $125 million in the last three months, Republican Party officials said on Tuesday, setting a presidential fund-raising record.
The huge infusion of money confirms that the president is building an enormous war chest heading into the 2020 election while the Democrats are set to spend the next several months arguing over their nominee. Mr. Trump’s fund-raising effort included several recent emails, tweets and text messages urging supporters to donate to help protect his presidency after House Democrats announced an impeachment inquiry into the president’s dealings with Ukraine and other matters.
Officials said that the various Trump-related committees have raised a combined $308 million this year, and have $156 million in cash on hand.
The numbers were reported by The Associated Press, and a campaign official confirmed their accuracy.
Several Democratic candidates reported far smaller fund-raising amounts for the third quarter on Tuesday. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont reported bringing in $25.3 million; Mayor Pete Buttigieg of South Bend, Ind., announced that he had raised $19.1 million; Senator Kamala Harris of California said she had an $11.6 million haul; and Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey disclosed raising more than $6 million.
In the last several years, the ability of political party committees to raise huge sums has been transformed following a Supreme Court decision on campaign finance limits as well as a lift of the cap on what committees could raise from individuals.
When President Barack Obama and the Democratic National Committee raised a combined $70 million in the same quarter of 2011, it was in smaller increments, meaning they needed to raise funds from more people.
Still, the war chest that Mr. Trump has amassed gives him a significant edge in spending before the general election campaign begins in earnest.
There’s an approach that avoids both a “civil war” and Trump’s guaranteed re-election.
I’m going to discuss impeachment today, but first I want to talk about the National Symphony Orchestra’s opening concert and gala last Saturday night. It was very revealing.
At mid-concert, the chairman of the Kennedy Center, David M. Rubinstein, came out to greet the audience and the V.I.P.s. He welcomed the different ambassadors, then he went through the cabinet members present and then the Supreme Court justices. He introduced Justice Samuel Alito, who got a smattering of applause. Then he introduced Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, seated in the balcony. First many women in the audience stood up to applaud. And then everyone stood up. And then everyone applauded. And then everyone applauded more. And then some people cheered. And then some whistled. And it went on and on and on.
It was extraordinary. I’ve been to a lot of Kennedy Center concerts, and a few when the president, sitting in his official box, was introduced. But I’ve never witnessed anything like the reception for Justice Ginsburg. And this was not a totally liberal audience. There were many older G.O.P. donors and corporate types there. This was a spontaneous, bipartisan expression of respect for, and longing for, a national leader of integrity and humility — after three years of a president utterly without shame, for whom no ethical red line has been too red to cross.
There is still a civic pulse in this country. Some Americans still support President Trump, but far, far more are exhausted and disgusted by him. And that is why his latest outrage is so dangerous to him. He knows that we know that many Republicans know that he committed an impeachable offense. And it’s all out there now: a whistle-blower complaint filed by a C.I.A. officer detailing how Trump dangled military assistance in front of the president of Ukraine if he would do Trump a “favor” and investigate bogus corruption charges against Joe Biden.
I believe that this not only could warrant Trump’s impeachment but that it could be done without plunging the country into “civil war” or guaranteeing Trump’s re-election — provided Democrats keep stressing four things.
First, this charge against Trump began with an independent whistle-blower — an intelligence officer, aided by other insiders. Sure, it could turn out that he was a Hillary Clinton fan, which Trump would use to rile up his base, claiming that Democrats were trying to steal his election mandate. But if this turns out to be what it appears — a nonpolitical C.I.A. analyst and other civil servants motivated by their oath to uphold the Constitution in the face of a president who was violating his oath — then Trump and the Republicans will have a problem.
Democrats in Congress need to make sure they say and do nothing that gets in the middle of this framing of the story, which, for now, appears to be accurate: nonpolitical civil servants inside the government acting on conscience against a law-breaking president acting on political greed and excess.
That so many G.O.P. senators have kept quiet up to now — save for uber-sycophants like Lindsey Graham — suggests that they fear that this framing is accurate and it stinks to them.
Second, there almost surely will be another nonpolitical, high-integrity civil servant who will testify about Trump and his lawyer Rudy Giuliani. That’s Masha Yovanovitch, the former U.S. ambassador to Ukraine, who was abruptly yanked home in May, months before her assignment was up. My State Department friends who know Yovanovitch say she was a widely respected, professional diplomat. She was apparently removed because she was somehow resisting Giuliani’s efforts to enlist the Ukraine government in Trump’s sordid effort to take down Biden.
Again, how eager will Republicans be to defend Giuliani and Trump by trashing a U.S. ambassador — with a stellar record — who was trying to prevent foreign interference in our elections?
Unlike Robert Mueller, who never spoke until it was too late and had his work “interpreted” by Trump’s attorney general, Bill Barr, the whistle-blower and his allies and the former ambassador are — and will be — speaking for themselves.
Third, unlike the Mueller investigation, this case is very easy for people to understand: Trump called the new Ukrainian president, who was desperate for U.S. military aid to use against Russian aggression, and made him an offer he couldn’t refuse: guns for Biden.
Finally, I have no doubt that Trump’s base will stick by him. But they are not the important constituency today, because Trump needs more than his base to get re-elected. He needs the moderate Republicans, independents and suburban women who came his way in 2016 — but then abandoned him in 2018, enabling the Democrats to retake the House. What will they do in 2020?
I believe that more than a few will be thinking about a question that will hang over all the impeachment testimony about Trump’s actions in Ukraine: If this is how he behaved while constrained by re-election concerns, how will Trump behave if he gets re-elected — despite this wretched behavior — and no longer needs to worry about re-election? America will become a banana republic.
It’s for all these reasons that Democrats have to be so disciplined in how they prosecute this case. They need to have a single spokesman, Representative Adam Schiff, and everyone else needs to keep quiet. They need to have professional prosecutors, not uninformed legislators, question witnesses; they need to keep the focus on the nonpolitical witnesses; and they need to have their presidential candidates stay out of this impeachment story and concentrate on their ideas for reviving and reuniting America.
Impeaching Trump right now on the eve of the next presidential election is very inconvenient. But doing the right thing is often inconvenient and unpopular — and doing it precisely when it’s inconvenient often indicates that it’s the right thing to do. But you have to do the right thing for the right reasons the right way.
Democrats should pursue impeachment in the House as if there were no election in 2020. And they should pursue the 2020 election as if there were no impeachment.
And they should do it by letting the nonpolitical whistle-blower and the other civil servants take the lead. These humble patriots started this, and it will go only as far as their credibility sustains it. And it’s their credibility that will influence the swing voters that brought Democrats the House in 2018 — those independents, moderate Republicans and suburban women — a few of whom, I suspect, were at the Kennedy Center last Saturday night, giving a standing ovation to Justice Ginsburg.
WASHINGTON — A rare thing emerged in Washington early this year: agreement. Republicans and Democrats in Congress, as well as the Trump White House, all said they wanted a new federal law to protect people’s online privacy. Numerous tech companies urged them on.
And they had a deadline. With a broad California privacy law set to go into effect early next year, many federal lawmakers and the tech companies wanted to get ahead of it and avoid having state-by-state rules.
But after months of talks, a national privacy law is nowhere in sight.
The window to pass a law this year is now quickly closing. Lawmakers continue to disagree on parts of the bill, including how best to enforce a new law and how much freedom states should have to pass their own rules. And some California lawmakers have balked at efforts to override their state’s new law.
Several lawmakers and their aides insist that they are making headway, meeting regularly to sort out the remaining roadblocks.
“We’re talking a lot, we’re meeting a lot, member-to-member, staff-to-staff, and we’re making good progress,” said Senator Roger Wicker, the Republican from Mississippi who chairs the Senate Commerce Committee, which includes several lawmakers shepherding the effort.
Yet they have nothing public to show for it. And they are now also contending with a Capitol gripped by the House’s impeachment inquiry into President Trump.
The struggle to regulate consumer data shows how lawmakers have largely been unable to turn rage at Silicon Valley’s practices into concrete action. Revelations that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had obtained reams of Facebook user data set off the Washington reckoning over online privacy last year. The social network has since agreed to pay a record $5 billion fine with regulators for mishandling user information, while Congress has grilled major tech executives over their data practices.
But the fervor to crack down on Silicon Valley has produced only a single new law, a bill to prevent sex trafficking online.
“With a Congress that tends to be a do-nothing Congress, they tend to not do a whole heck of a lot unless the phones are ringing off the hook,” said Gigi Sohn, a former Federal Communications Commission official. “That may be the missing piece.”
The United States has some laws that protect consumers’ privacy, like medical information collected by a doctor. But Congress has never set an overarching national standard for how most companies gather and use data. Regulators in Europe, in contrast, put strict new privacy rules into effect last year.
Many tech companies built lucrative businesses off their users’ personal information, often by offering a “free” product in return. Facebook, Google and Twitter, for example, let advertisers precisely target messages based on people’s habits. Other industries — from health care to retail to banking — have also looked at ways to take advantage of customer data.
Last year, California lawmakers passed privacy legislation in the face of public backlash against those companies. Called the California Consumer Privacy Act, the state law gives people the right to see what personal information companies have compiled on them and the right to delete that data and stop companies from selling it. The law takes effect on New Year’s Day 2020; enforcement of it begins in July.
Lobbyists representing the tech giants have spent much of this year trying to modify California’s strict rules before they are enforced. The Internet Association, a group whose members include Google, Facebook and Amazon, supported a bill exempting advertising services from being covered by some of the law’s restrictions, along with several others tweaking the legislation.
At the same time, industry groups flooded Washington with a clear message meant to neutralize California’s rules entirely. Congress should pass a national privacy law, they said, and include a provision superseding any state legislation on the issue.
Joseph Simons, the chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, the top privacy regulator in the country, has also weighed in, urging Congress to pass a national law.
That pressure is likely to increase given that the tech industry’s lobbying efforts in California have had mixed success. The advertising exemption did not make it into the state law, for example. Last month, privacy advocates introduced a new ballot campaign to give the law more teeth.
A group of chief executives who are part of the group Business Roundtable also sent congressional leaders a letter last month calling for them to pass a national privacy law “as soon as possible.”
The Internet Association released a digital and radio advertising campaign warning that American consumers could have to contend with 50 individual state privacy laws. And Business Roundtable has run ads on Facebook linked to its privacy positions. In one, a video shows a map of the United States that breaks into five pieces, according to Facebook’s library of political and issue advertisements.
“Our nation’s privacy laws are FRAGMENTED,” it said.
Tech industry representatives argue that a national law is the best substantive solution in an era of growing privacy concerns. But they also said that their losses in California factor into their strategy.
“California certainly makes things more complicated for people, but this is not just a reaction to California,” said Michael Beckerman, the chief executive of the Internet Association.
Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, who has been involved in the privacy talks, said Congress remains in negotiations over a national privacy law. He said there were “some remaining thorny issues” but estimated that lawmakers had “probably done 70 percent of the work.”
Senator Jerry Moran, Republican from Kansas, and Richard Blumenthal, Democrat from Connecticut, are nearing a complete version of a privacy bill, according to one person briefed on the talks. In the House, Democrats have been negotiating with their Republican counterparts but are also considering producing a unilateral measure should bipartisan discussions fail, said a different person familiar with the deliberations. They both spoke on the condition of anonymity because information on the talks was shared confidentially.
“We’re not amending a statute, we’re creating one,” said Mr. Schatz. “This is an area where there is no privacy framework in the federal law so we had to construct it from whole cloth — and that takes time to do right.”
One particularly divisive question is whether consumers themselves should be able to directly sue companies that violate the new federal law. Privacy advocates said that a so-called private right of action would give consumers recourse if regulatory agencies failed to take action in response to a troublesome practice. But Republicans remain skeptical.
“It would really create problems,” Mr. Wicker said.
Lawmakers have also publicly disagreed over whether they should give the F.T.C. more authority to make rules on privacy than it currently has — and how far they must go to pre-empt the state laws.
As they haggle over the details of any possible legislation, lawmakers have fended off most of the questions about their plans from reporters who stalk them through Capitol Hill hallways and stake out their negotiations.
Asked last week about the status of the talks, Mr. Wicker, who once mused that a privacy proposal would be public by early September, deadpanned.
“We’ll have an announcement this afternoon,” he said.
G.O.P. leaders, confused and dazed by the Ukraine scandal, haven’t come up with a coherent defense. Maybe because there isn’t one?
What a difference Ukraine makes.
For months, Republicans gloated as Democrats agonized and squabbled over the question of impeaching President Trump. Should they? Dare they? Did the congressional investigations already taking place qualify as an impeachment inquiry? Grappling with a decision so monumental, and politically risky, the Democratic Party threatened to tear itself apart.
Then came last week’s announcement by Speaker Nancy Pelosi that a formal impeachment investigation was moving forward in the House. Faster than you can say “whistle-blower,” the dynamic flipped. Democrats united behind the message that Mr. Trump, in soliciting a foreign government’s help to undermine one of his domestic political rivals, had left them no choice but to pursue such an inquiry. Republicans struggled to respond, with some of their arguments more creative — and coherent — than others. Among their efforts:
Senator Lindsey Graham opted for a hard brushback: “To impeach any president over a phone call like this would be insane,” he told CNN last Wednesday, referring to the July 25 conversation between Mr. Trump and the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky. “There is no there there,” he insisted on Fox News hours later, warning that “if this is an impeachable offense — this phone call — God help the next person to be president of the United States.”
The House minority leader, Kevin McCarthy, tried a gentler version of this on CBS’s “60 Minutes,” saying he interpreted the call as “two leaders having admiration, not intimidation.”
Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, turned the tables, accusing House Democrats of trying to “intimidate, bully and treat improperly” five State Department officials called to give depositions starting this week on the Ukraine affair.
In a Sunday appearance on CNN, Representative Jim Jordan dismissed the scandal as a plot by Democrats to bring down the president, before unleashing the unsubstantiated allegations against former Vice President Joe Biden that Mr. Trump has been pushing. It was a perfect execution of the popular “What about Biden!” dodge, in which defenders dismiss questions about Mr. Trump’s behavior while pivoting to insist that the real scandal is what Vice President Biden did.
Fact check: No, it’s not.
On Sunday, the presidential adviser Stephen Miller insisted that it is Mr. Trump who is the real “whistle-blower,” exposing the corruption of Democrats, while the whistle-blower who reported the Ukraine phone call was “a deep-state operative, pure and simple.” On Monday, Peter Navarro, the president’s trade adviser, denounced the impeachment inquiry as “an attempted coup d’état,” comparing House Democrats to Lavrentiy Beria, the head of the Soviet secret police under Joseph Stalin.
Multiple Republicans pushed the idea that the whistle-blower wasn’t credible because much of the information in his report was secondhand and so should be dismissed as “hearsay.” This message fails to address the fact that the official White House summary of the July 25 call supports the whistle-blower’s stated concerns (“I would like you to do us a favor though.…”). 
For a couple of days, some apologists — including Mr. Trump — peddled a conspiracy theory, first floated by a conservative website, that the form the whistle-blower used to make his complaint had secretly been changed just days earlier to allow, for the first time, reporting based on secondhand information. Not true. The office of the inspector general of the intelligence community promptly smacked it down.
Mr. Trump has tried a bit of everything. He has attacked the whistle-blower’s account as a “political hack job”; he has likened the whistle-blower’s sources to spies and implied they should be executed for treason; he has accused Representative Adam Schiff, the Democrat in charge of the House Intelligence Committee’s Ukraine investigation, of treason and suggested he should be arrested; and he has circulated a quote from one of his evangelical surrogates saying that, if he is removed from office, “it will cause a Civil War like fracture in this Nation from which our Country will never heal.”
But such presidential rantings only further muddy the messaging waters. On Tuesday, Charles Grassley, the Republican who leads the Senate Finance Committee, issued a statement in support of the whistle-blower. “This person appears to have followed the whistle-blower protection laws and ought to be heard out and protected,” Senator Grassley said.
Worse still, a smattering of Republicans have declined to accept Mr. Trump’s contention that this is “The Greatest Witch Hunt in the history of our Country!”
Senator Mitt Romney pronounced the phone call “deeply troubling,” while Senator Ben Sasse called the whistle-blower complaint “very troubling.” Representative Mike Turner said of the call, “That conversation is not O.K.” Representative Will Hurd found the whistle-blower’s complaint “concerning” and said lawmakers “need to fully investigate all of the allegations.” Gov. Charlie Baker of Massachusetts and Gov. Phil Scott of Vermont expressed support for the impeachment inquiry.
If Republicans hope to defend the president’s actions — not an easy job, given the facts — they need to find a better message and a better strategy for delivering it. Or leave the job to Mr. Trump. 
It’s a loaded question — with no obvious answer.
Since 2015, we have been worrying about how much danger Donald Trump posed to democracy. Now, with the impeachment inquiry moving forward, a new question is rapidly gaining relevance: How and when will President Trump leave the White House?
When I asked David Leege, professor of political science emeritus at Notre Dame, about political developments in the near future, his response surprised me. After noting that I had not posed the most important question, he added:
Leege elaborated:
Before you decide that this is paranoia, let me point out that Leege is an eminently reasonable scholar, a former chair of the board of overseers of the American National Election Studies and one of the founders of the Comparative Study of Electoral Systems. He has been a valued source of mine for years.
“The country is armed to the hilt,” Leege wrote:
Leege went on to speculate about what might happen in the worst of circumstances:
Should push come to shove, the pivotal group, in Leege’s view,
Take a look at what Trump has openly, consistently and repeatedly said. Here are just a few examples.
On March 3, 2016, Bret Baier of Fox News asked Trump what would happen if the military refused to obey his orders to torture suspected terrorists because “they’ve been trained to turn down and refuse illegal orders.” Trump — still eight months before being elected — replied:
“They won’t refuse. They’re not going to refuse me. Believe me.”
Pressed further by Baier, Trump declared:
In the final debate with Hillary Clinton on Oct. 19, 2016, Chris Wallace of Fox News pressed Trump to announce that he would “absolutely accept the result of this election.” Trump’s answer:
Trump then claimed that the results could be corrupted because there are “millions of people that are registered to vote that shouldn’t be registered to vote.” Not only that, but his opponent “shouldn’t be allowed to run. It’s crooked — she’s, she’s guilty of a very, very serious crime. She should not be allowed to run.”
Finally, Trump concluded the exchange: “What I’m saying is that I will tell you at the time. I’ll keep you in suspense. O.K.?”
Or consider what Trump has said while president. On March 12, 2019, a month before publication of the Mueller Report, Trump told Breitbart, the hard right populist news site:
And on Monday, Trump strengthened the case that he is willing to burn the house down, posting a series of tweets quoting Robert Jeffress, pastor of the First Baptist Church in Dallas, from an appearance on Fox News earlier that day.
Here’s what Jeffress said:
Now Trump is conducting an all-out assault on the impeachment process, calling it a coup in a pair of tweets posted on Tuesday:
All of this raises a couple of questions: What drives the depth and intensity of support for Trump? And how far are those supporters willing to go to keep him in the White House?
Extensive evidence suggests that the passion of Trump’s loyalists is, to a considerable extent, rooted in what they perceive as racial and cultural threat. Polls and surveys from Pew, N.P.R. and the Public Religion Research Institute show that 55 percent of whites believe they are discriminated against, that a plurality of whites (46 percent) believes that a majority-minority nation will “weaken American culture” and that once dominant white Christians are no longer a majority.
Let’s first examine the question of how seriously we should take the specter of civil disorder. I asked a number of experts in American politics and their replies varied.
Philip Bobbitt, a law professor at Columbia and the University of Texas, and the author of a new edition of Charles Black’s “Impeachment: A Handbook,” replied to my inquiry:
Others were less sanguine.
Walter Dellinger, professor emeritus at Duke Law School, former acting solicitor general and head of the Office of Legal Counsel under President Bill Clinton, wrote:
But, he added,
Steven Levitsky, a professor of government at Harvard and one of the authors of “How Democracies Die,” warned that a dangerous situation could emerge if the outcome of the 2020 election is very close, “one that, broadly like 2000, hinged on one or maybe two contested states.”
In that case, Levitsky wrote,
Like Dellinger, Levitsky argued that Fox News will play a crucial role if Trump is impeached or loses a close re-election bid:
 If a Senate vote on impeachment “is bipartisan," Levitsky added, “Trump will have no choice but to go peacefully (screaming on Twitter, perhaps, but peacefully) into the night.”
Bruce Cain, a political scientist at Stanford, argued in an email that Republicans will be very reluctant to turn against Trump:
Cain described current events as
Bart Bonikowski, a professor of sociology at Harvard, reiterated the importance of norm violation in Trump’s governing strategy:
Bonikowski contended that while
Whether perpetrated by “journalists, independent judges, career civil servants, or legislators,” Bonikowski wrote, “any attempt at checking his power is seen as a betrayal of him, his supporters, and ultimately, the nation.”
David Brady, a political scientist who is also a professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, provided poll data indicating that the hard core of Trump supporters is quite likely to disbelieve outcomes in which Trump is cast as the loser.
Brady pointed out that in “the latest YouGov poll, 89 percent of those who strongly approve of the job Trump is doing also say that the deep state is trying to overthrow the president.”
At the same time, Brady continued,
Ashley Jardina, a political scientist at Duke, cited the sense of racial isolation common among many Trump supporters. “Some of Trump’s most steadfast supporters are white Americans who feel a strong sense of solidarity with their racial group,” she wrote, while experiencing “a sense of racial alienation — or a profound feeling of group disenfranchisement.”
These voters, according to Jardina,
From another vantage point altogether, there is the dilemma of the conservative who finds Trump repugnant, but also views Democrats as worse.
Charles Murray, a political scientist affiliated with the American Enterprise Institute and the author of “Coming Apart,” believes that Trump is
Despite that, Murray continued, “it is also quite possible that I will find myself voting for him next year.” The conservative scholar said he approves of many of the things that have happened during the Trump years — especially “the judges he has appointed and the steps to roll back stupid and obstructive regulations. I also think that the nation needs to control its borders and limit low-skill immigration.”
While Joe Biden might be an acceptable choice, in Murray’s view, “a Warren or Sanders presidency would be a disaster for the nation.”
Murray concluded:
From the perspective of Trump’s most fervent supporters, the issue of race is crucial.
Data that helps us understand the ardent level of support among many Trump voters can be found in a March 19, 2019 Pew Research report, “Looking to the Future, Public Sees an America in Decline on Many Fronts.”
As the accompanying chart shows, the Pew survey asked two relevant questions.
First, “Will having a majority of the population made up of blacks, Asians, Hispanics and other racial minorities by 2050 lead to more or fewer conflicts between racial and ethnic groups?”
Republicans said more conflicts by better than 4 to 1, 59-14; a much smaller percentage of Democrats said that there would more conflict, 42-36.
Second, “Will having a majority of the population made up of blacks, Asians, Hispanics and other racial minorities by 2050 strengthen or weaken American customs and values?”
In this case, Republicans foresee a weakening of American customs and values by a decisive 59-13. Democrats, in contrast, anticipate stronger customs and values, 42-22.
Lilliana Mason, a political scientist at the University of Maryland, posed a thought-provoking question in her response to my emailed inquiry.
First, she argued:
With Trump capitalizing on a hostile reaction to the election of the first black president and his own “scapegoating of nonwhite people,” Mason wrote, whiteness “became, instead of the ‘default’ American identity, a thing to defend.”
Over and above that, Mason wrote, it’s possible that
If, she continued,
Jack Goldstone, a professor of public policy at George Mason, voiced the more pessimistic view.
For many Trump supporters, Goldstone wrote by email, “the world they grew up in and knew best was an overwhelmingly white, Christian world, with institutions led by white Christian men.”
These Trump supporters, in Goldstone’s view,
For these voters, Goldstone wrote,
If, Goldstone continued, these voters feel
In order for impeachment to be accepted by these voters, he wrote, it
In an interview with Axios, Goldstone described the reaction among some whites to the prospect of a multicultural America: “The panic translates into an effective voting bloc that has high anxiety about immigration, diversity and religious issues.”
Unlike Goldstone, William Frey, a senior fellow at Brookings and an expert on the nation’s changing demographics, is an optimist. He wrote by email:
Frey observes that
Frey says that his
He also notes that
Frey concludes on a note in line with the data he presents:
I would like to be able to share Frey’s optimism, but I am more worried than he is about strains within the American electorate.
Unlike the electorate in 1974, voters today have always known that the president is ethically dubious, and many don’t care. 
Over the weekend, some House leaders said that their impeachment inquiry does not need to prove that President Trump set in motion a cover-up to hide his dealings with Ukraine. As Representative Hakeem Jeffries said on Sunday, “We’re going to remain focused on the abuse of power that clearly exists. There’s evidence that is hiding in plain sight of that fact, including the rough transcript.” That transcript, which shows that Mr. Trump asked Ukraine’s president to investigate Joe Biden in exchange for “very good” treatment, is enough for his impeachment, they say. What more do they need?
A lot, probably. The Democrats in Congress need to persuade Republicans and the public in general that the Ukraine scandal is more than just another example of Mr. Trump being himself. In that sense, they face a more difficult task than did Richard Nixon’s critics during the impeachment investigation of 1974.
During the Watergate scandal, Nixon tried mightily to keep his conversations with his co-conspirators secret. An exceptionally shrewd politician, he lied with a clear goal: to keep his public image as a statesman intact.
Mr. Trump, by contrast, does not display Nixon’s concern for clever image manipulation. His lies are indiscriminate rather than strategic. As a result, there could be a higher bar for his political opponents to clear. Nixon’s critics used the Watergate tapes to show the real man behind the mask. Mr. Trump doesn’t wear a mask. He’s proud to flout the norms of presidential behavior, possibly even to the point of extorting foreign leaders.
Nixon’s troubles began when the director of security for his re-election campaign and four other men were arrested breaking into the Democratic National Committee’s headquarters at the Watergate complex in 1972. The White House denied any connection with the break-in, and the president himself insisted that “no one in this administration, presently employed, was involved in this very bizarre incident.”
In truth, the burglary was part of an espionage and sabotage operation run by Nixon’s campaign to discredit Democratic presidential candidates. Nixon aides paid for the program with a substantial slush fund fed by unreported contributions. The president knew he needed to stop any further investigation into the burglary lest these other crimes be exposed, and — as the nation would later learn — he immediately started a cover-up.
Pressured by Senate Democrats, the administration appointed a special prosecutor, Archibald Cox, to investigate the various crimes soon summarized as “Watergate.” The Senate set up a select committee to hold hearings into any “illegal, improper or unethical activities” in the 1972 presidential election. 
The most sensational testimony came from Alexander Butterfield, assistant to Nixon’s chief of staff, who revealed the president had been recording his conversations in the White House. Cox subpoenaed some of the recordings. The Senate committee also demanded that the president produce these tapes.
Nixon refused, claiming executive privilege. When Cox persisted, Nixon had him fired, but was forced to accept a new special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, and to turn some tapes over to him and to Congress. That’s when prosecutors found that one of the tapes featured an 18½-minute gap, the apparent result of a manual erasure. Jaworski and Congress redoubled their efforts to get more tapes.
Terrified by the prospect of others hearing the actual tapes, Nixon refused again, and instead made public “edited transcripts” of them.
The release of the transcripts became a fiasco for the president. Rather than helping the White House control the conversation, the documents became objects of cultural fascination. Newspapers printed them in full as special sections; radio stations broadcast live readings of them; the paperback edition of the transcripts was wildly popular. A prudish White House transcriber had replaced many four-letter words with “expletive deleted,” which became a popular catchphrase.
Moreover, Congress checked the actual tapes against the transcripts and discovered that someone had edited them in ways that benefited Nixon. For example, one conversation from March 22, 1973, recorded the president telling his aides, “I want you all to stonewall it, let them plead the Fifth Amendment, cover up, or anything else” — a vivid passage mysteriously absent from the White House transcript.
The discrepancies between the White House transcripts and the tapes became evidence of further malfeasance. When the Supreme Court ruled that he had to turn over more tapes, including one in which he explicitly directed the Watergate cover-up, Nixon resigned.
Nixon did everything he could to prevent Americans from hearing how he sounded in private. Later, he said that his chief mistake in Watergate was not abuse of power, but rather his failure to conceal evidence. “If the tapes had been destroyed,” he told the journalist David Frost, “I believe that it is likely that I would not have had to go through the agony of resignation.” Nixon realized that the tapes had bared his true self to the public — and thus cost him the presidency.
To be sure, Mr. Trump is no stranger to cover-ups. He hides his tax returns and refuses to discuss his businesses. But in the case of the Ukraine phone call, where there is documentation that he asked a foreign leader to interfere in an American election, he insists he has no regrets. His unorthodox conversations, the president insists, are “perfect.” He dares his opponents to find fault with what he presents as his routine conduct of foreign affairs.
Nixon’s opponents needed to produce evidence that revealed the real Nixon. The president’s critics today have a greater challenge: to persuade enough voters that the real Mr. Trump — whom we already know — is a criminal worth removing from office.
ROME — Secretary of State Mike Pompeo confirmed on Wednesday that he had listened in on President Trump’s telephone conversation with the president of Ukraine — a call that has become the subject of a whistle-blower’s complaint and is at the heart of an impeachment inquiry by House Democrats.
“I was on the phone call,” Mr. Pompeo said at a news conference in Rome — the first time he has addressed the topic publicly since reports surfaced that he had heard the exchange.
He did not elaborate on the conversation and did not answer a question about whether anything in it had raised a red flag for him.
In the July 25 call, Mr. Trump pressed President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine to investigate the activities in Ukraine of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden and his son Hunter.
[Echoes of Benghazi criticism and anger confront Pompeo in the Ukraine inquiry.]
Mr. Zelensky thanked Mr. Trump for United States assistance in defending Ukraine against Russia, and said his country wanted to buy more American weapons. Mr. Trump, who days earlier had frozen an aid package for Ukraine, replied, “I would like you to do us a favor though,” and asked for help in investigating the 2016 election.
An anonymous whistle-blower within the government filed a complaint in August, citing the call and other factors as information that “the President of the United States is using the power of his office to solicit interference from a foreign country in the 2020 U.S. election.”
The complaint, made public last week, says that White House officials, rather than storing a record of the conversation with Mr. Zelensky in the usual computer system, attempted to “lock down” information on it, placing it in a more secure system, accessible to fewer people, because they “understood the gravity of what had transpired in the call.”
Mr. Pompeo’s confirmation that he was on the call came as he engages in a fight with Democrats in the House of Representatives who have demanded swift access to State Department officials for interviews as part of the impeachment inquiry.
And it came on a day when Congress may receive new information about the Trump administration’s interactions with Ukraine, from the State Department inspector general, Steve A. Linick, who requested to meet committee staff members on Wednesday.
Mr. Pompeo on Wednesday described United States policy toward Ukraine as “remarkably consistent,” being focused on addressing “the threat that Russia poses” and attempts at “helping the Ukrainians to get graft out, and corruption outside of their government.”
“Even,” he added, “while all this noise is going on.”
Current and former State Department officials have said it is unusual for a secretary of state to listen in on presidential calls with other world leaders. That is normally a role filled by the White House national security adviser and the National Security Council staff.
Mr. Pompeo supports a get-tough policy on Russia and may have been included on the call to ensure that message was reflected in Mr. Trump’s comments to the Ukrainian president.
John R. Bolton, another Russia hawk who then was serving as national security adviser, often disagreed with Mr. Pompeo, and they competed for Mr. Trump’s ear. Since Mr. Bolton was ousted last month, Mr. Pompeo’s influence has grown.
In his request to Mr. Zelensky, Mr. Trump pushed a conspiracy theory that his own staff had repeatedly told him was false — that Ukraine, not Russia, had intervened in the 2016 election and that it had done so on behalf of the Democrats.
In another call, to Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia, Mr. Trump asked for help discrediting the Mueller investigation into Russia’s election interference.
Mr. Trump has repeatedly vented his anger at the impeachment inquiry on Twitter, asking why he was not “entitled to interview” and know the identity of the whistle-blower, whose anonymity is protected by law to prevent retaliation. He has also tweeted that he is the target of an attempted coup and that Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, should be arrested.
On Tuesday, Mr. Pompeo released a letter that excoriated House Democrats for demanding quick depositions of State Department officials involved in policy toward Ukraine, calling it an “act of intimidation” that did not allow his officials sufficient time to respond.
“What we objected to was the demands that were put that deeply violate fundamental principles of separation of powers,” Mr. Pompeo said on Wednesday. “They contacted State Department employees directly, told them not to contact legal counsel at the State Department — at least that’s been reported to us — told them State Department wouldn’t be allowed to be present.”
He said that the department would cooperate with Congress, but that, “we won’t tolerate folks on Capitol Hill bullying and intimidating State Department employees — that’s unacceptable.”
The House postponed the first of the depositions, which it had scheduled for Wednesday.
Representative Elijah E. Cummings, the chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, accused Mr. Pompeo of obstruction.
“In response, Congress may infer from this obstruction that any withheld documents and testimony would reveal information that corroborates the whistle-blower complaint,” Mr. Cummings said in a statement.
In response to Mr. Pompeo’s letter, he wrote that House Democrats believed Mr. Pompeo had an “obvious conflict of interest” because of his presence on Mr. Trump’s call with Mr. Zelensky and that they would not inform Mr. Pompeo about other witnesses.
“The committee may infer that he is trying to cover up illicit activity and misconduct, including by the president,” the statement read.
Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the chairman of the Oversight and Reform Committee, notified his committee of the impending subpoena on Wednesday. He said the White House had thus far ignored Congress’s voluntary requests for materials related to President Trump’s efforts to pressure Ukraine into investigating Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son and any attempt by the administration to conceal his actions.
“I do not take this step lightly,” Mr. Cummings wrote. “Over the past several weeks, the committees tried several times to obtain voluntary compliance with our requests for documents, but the White House has refused to engage with — or even respond to — the committees.”
The subpoena threat came as lawmakers expected to hear a mysterious bit of new information abruptly offered up by the State Department’s independent watchdog.
— Nicholas Fandos
During a meeting at the White House with President Sauli Niinisto of Finland, President Trump raged at his Democratic inquisitors.
With his guest sitting a few feet away, Mr. Trump angrily called Representative Adam B. Schiff, the Democratic chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, “a lowlife,” and said he “should resign from office in disgrace, and frankly they should look at him for treason.”
Mr. Trump repeated his complaint that Mr. Schiff had “fraudulently” distorted his words in a House hearing last week by summarizing part of the president’s July 25 phone call with the president of Ukraine. (Mr. Schiff said at the time that his summary was meant “at least part in parody.” Mr. Trump routinely satirizes the words of others.)
But Mr. Trump, who in a morning Twitter post said that Democrats are focused on “BULLSHIT,” chose to censor himself in a critique of Mr. Schiff, who said on Wednesday that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo may try to “interfere with witnesses” ordered to testify before Congress.
“That guy couldn’t carry his blank strap,” Mr. Trump said, unfavorably comparing Mr. Schiff to Mr. Pompeo. Mr. Trump seemed to be avoiding the words “jock strap” and using a common insult about masculinity.
Of the whistle-blower who lodged a formal complaint about Mr. Trump’s dealings with Ukraine, Mr. Trump said: “I think a whistle-blower should be protected, if the whistle-blower is legitimate.”
At a second appearance with Mr. Niinisto not much later, Mr. Trump became increasingly angry while responding to questions about the impeachment investigation, complaining that it was part of a “hoax” that has been perpetrated against him since he took office, and threatening vaguely to bring “a major lawsuit” in retaliation. He went after Mr. Schiff anew, and blasted Speaker Nancy Pelosi, charging that she “hands out subpoenas like they’re cookies.” 
— Michael Crowley
The C.I.A. officer who filed the whistle-blower complaint first had a colleague convey concerns about President Trump to the C.I.A.’s top lawyer. But concerned about how that avenue for airing his allegations was unfolding, the officer then approached a House Intelligence Committee aide about his allegations. 
The early account by the future whistle-blower shows how determined he was to make known his allegations against Mr. Trump. It also explains how Mr. Schiff knew to press for the complaint when the Trump administration initially blocked lawmakers from seeing it.
The House staff member, following the committee’s procedures, suggested the officer find a lawyer to advise him and file a whistle-blower complaint. The aide shared some of what the officer conveyed to Mr. Schiff. The aide did not share the whistle-blower’s identity with Mr. Schiff or anyone else, an official said.
Mr. Trump wasted no time in trying to use the revelation about the whistle-blower’s attempt to alert Congress to try to denigrate his complaint. In a news conference in the East Room of the White House after this article was published, Mr. Trump called it a scandal that Mr. Schiff knew the outlines of the whistle-blower’s accusations before he filed his complaint.
“Big stuff. That’s a big story,” Mr. Trump said, waving a copy of the article in the air. “He knew long before and helped write it, too. It’s a scam,” the president added, accusing Mr. Schiff of helping the whistle-blower write his complaint. There is no evidence that Mr. Schiff did, and his spokesman said he saw no part of the complaint before it was filed.
— Julian E. Barnes
The State Department’s independent watchdog arrived on Capitol Hill Wednesday afternoon to privately deliver to lawmakers a mysterious set of documents he said related to the State Department and Ukraine. Democrats were preparing for another possible bombshell that, some whispered, might show top administration officials had tried to obstruct their work. 
Instead, they got a packet of assorted news clippings and conspiratorial memos about Democratic malfeasance in Ukraine that the State Department’s inspector general, Steven A. Linick, said had been delivered to Mr. Pompeo earlier this year from someone purporting to be at the White House. A legal adviser at the department then handed it on to Mr. Linick’s office at the time. 
Lawmakers and officials familiar with the briefing and material said Mr. Linick made clear he did not assign credibility to the roughly 40 pages of material and doubted its actual provenance, but he thought lawmakers should have it in light of their investigative work. 
The material came in an aged manilla envelope that listed “The White House” as the return address. It contained several folders that appeared to have come from a Trump hotel. 
Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland, called the material an “irrelevant distraction from the matter at hand.” 
“It is very clear what it is,” he told reporters. “It is a package of propaganda, misinformation and conspiracy theories. The real question is where did it come from and how did it end up in our laps?”
But there were also intriguing potential leads. Among the documents were what appeared to be notes of interviews involving Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, and Ukrainian officials about the Bidens.
— Nicholas Fandos and Catie Edmondson
“I was on the phone call,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said at a news conference in Rome — the first time he has addressed the topic publicly since reports surfaced that he had heard the exchange.
He did not elaborate on the conversation and did not answer a question about whether anything in it had raised a red flag for him. 
Senator Robert Menendez, the top Democrat on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, called on Wednesday for Mr. Pompeo to recuse himself from “all Ukraine-related matters,” saying Mr. Pompeo had a conflict of interest because he was among the Trump administration officials on the call. Mr. Menendez’s request followed a letter from the three House Democrats overseeing the impeachment inquiry who on Tuesday informed the deputy secretary of state, John Sullivan, that they would deal with him because they said Mr. Pompeo had a conflict of interest and could be called as a potential witness.
An anonymous whistle-blower within the government filed a complaint in August, citing the call and other factors as information that “the President of the United States is using the power of his office to solicit interference from a foreign country in the 2020 U.S. election.”
The complaint, made public last week, says that White House officials, rather than storing a record of the conversation with Volodymyr Zelensky, Ukraine’s president, in the usual computer system, attempted to “lock down” information on it, placing it in a more secure system, accessible to fewer people. The whistle-blower asserted this was done because they “understood the gravity of what had transpired in the call.”
 — Jason Horowitz, Richard Pérez-Peña and Eileen Sullivan
The book, which was adapted in an article in The New York Times, discusses a series of ideas that Mr. Trump raised with aides in his quest to fortify the border. Besides the moat, the article also discussed that he mused about shooting migrants in the legs to slow them down. 
Mr. Trump called the report obviously “fake,” because, he erroneously said, it was the work of The Washington Post. The authors are reporters for The New York Times.
— Michael Crowley
Senator Mitch McConnell’s comment this week that the Senate would be forced to “take up” articles of impeachment from the House had the capital in a swirl, bracing for a full-blown Senate trial of President Trump. But as things now stand, any trial would probably be swift, ending in dismissal of the accusations.
While the focus was on the statement by Mr. McConnell, the majority leader, that the Senate would have “no choice” but to begin an impeachment proceeding, it was his next line that might have been more telling: “How long you are on it is a whole different matter.”
The fusty rules of the Senate make clear that Republicans could not unilaterally stonewall articles of impeachment of Mr. Trump as they did the Supreme Court nomination of Merrick B. Garland. But Mr. McConnell’s declaration suggests the Republican-controlled Senate could move expeditiously to toss them out if Republicans conclude the House impeachment is meritless, or a strictly partisan affair.
— Carl Hulse
The House should consider the president’s incendiary rhetoric as a separate offense, worthy of its own article of impeachment, as it was in 1868.
Over the weekend, in a rage over impeachment, President Trump accused Representative Adam Schiff of “treason,” promised “Big Consequences” for the whistle-blower who sounded the alarm about his phone call with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine and shared a warning — from a Baptist pastor in Dallas — that impeachment “will cause a Civil War like fracture in this Nation from which our Country will never heal.”
We’re already on to the next news cycle, but we shouldn’t lose sight of what happened with those tweets. The president was using the power and influence of his office to intimidate a witness and threaten a member of Congress with prosecution (of a crime still punishable by death), before raising the specter of large-scale political violence should lawmakers hold him responsible for his actions. If he had said this anywhere besides Twitter — in the Rose Garden or at a campaign stop — we would see it as a clear and unacceptable abuse of presidential rhetoric, his authoritarian instincts at work.
The House impeachment inquiry will almost certainly focus on Trump’s attempt to solicit foreign intervention in the 2020 election. If it goes beyond that, it might also include the president’s corruption and self-dealing. But in whichever direction the investigation goes, the House should consider Trump’s violent rhetoric as a separate offense, worthy of its own article of impeachment.
[Join Jamelle Bouie as he shines a light on overlooked writing, culture and ideas from around the internet. For exclusive thoughts, photos and reading recommendations, sign up for his newsletter.]
There’s precedent for making transgressive presidential speech a “high crime or misdemeanor.” The 10th article of impeachment against Andrew Johnson in 1868 was about his language and conduct over the course of his term. Two years earlier, Johnson had taken a tour of Northern cities to campaign against Radical Republicans in Congress and build support for his lenient policies toward the defeated South.
At first, it was a success, with large crowds cheering the president during events in Baltimore, New York and Philadelphia. But his fortunes turned in Cleveland, where the stubborn and taciturn Johnson unraveled in the face of hecklers. “The president was frequently interrupted by cheers, by hisses and by cries, apparently from those opposed to him in the crowd,” William Hudson, a reporter for The Cleveland Leader, wrote. When a heckler yelled, “Hang Jeff Davis!” — referring to the former leader of the Confederacy, then held at Fort Monroe in Virginia — Johnson replied, “Why don’t you hang him?” When another shouted, “Thad Stevens” — the chief Radical Republican in the House of Representatives — a now angry Johnson responded with “Why don’t you hang Thad Stevens and Wendell Phillips?” Phillips had been a leading abolitionist.
Johnson continued to speak, struggling to gain the upper hand with the crowd. By the end, however, the president was unhinged. “Come out where I can see you,” he said to one heckler. “If you ever shoot a man, you will do it in the dark and pull the trigger when no one else is by to see.” After witnessing this disastrous performance, an aide urged the president to consider the dignity of the office. Johnson was dismissive. “I don’t care about my dignity,” he reportedly said.
The tour didn’t improve. In St. Louis, as in Cleveland, hecklers yelled “New Orleans” in reference to a massacre that summer in which white Democrats, most of them ex-Confederates, attacked a large gathering of black Republican marchers, killing nearly 50 people. In response, Johnson said the “riot at New Orleans was substantially planned.” But he blamed Radical Republicans who, he said, encouraged the city’s “black population to arm themselves and prepare for the shedding of blood.” At this point, someone in the crowd called him a “traitor,” which — as Garry Boulard recounts in “The Swing Around the Circle: Andrew Johnson and the Train Ride That Destroyed a Presidency” — Johnson angrily denounced with one of the strangest tirades of the tour: “I have been traduced! I have been slandered. I have been maligned. I have been called Judas — Judas Iscariot and all of that.”
By the time it was over, Johnson had been humiliated and his reputation was in tatters. In The Atlantic Monthly, the essayist Edwin Percy Whipple summarized elite opinion of Johnson’s tour:
All of this would resurface in 1868, when the House adopted its 11 articles of impeachment against the president. Among them was a reference to his summer swing through the North — to the idea that Johnson had sullied the office of the presidency with dangerous, demagogic rhetoric. In its 10th article of impeachment, the House of Representatives accused Johnson of being “unmindful of the high duties of his office and the dignity and proprieties thereof.” His behavior, they argued, was an “attempt to bring into disgrace, ridicule, hatred, contempt and reproach the Congress of the United States” and to “impair and destroy the regard and respect of all the good people of the United States for the Congress and the legislative power thereof.”
Article 10 was divisive. Not necessarily because the Congress or its Republican majority had any love for Johnson, but because it raised difficult political and constitutional questions. How could anyone actually prove that Johnson meant to “impair and destroy” the regard of Congress? And while it’s true the president has unique duties, it’s also true that the president is entitled to the same freedom of speech that any other citizen has. His rhetoric was offensive, but was it impeachable?
Johnson’s opponents in the Senate opted not to test the case. They tried the president on just three articles of impeachment. And if not for the last-minute (and arguably self-interested) defection of Senator Edmund Ross of Kansas, Johnson would have been cast from office, the first president to be impeached and removed.
This is all to say that Trump easily meets the Andrew Johnson standard for impeachable rhetoric. For nearly three years, he has used the presidency to stir anger and incite hatred. He has rallied crowds with racist demagogy and threatened opponents with violence from his supporters. “I can tell you I have the support of the police, the support of the military, the support of the Bikers for Trump — I have the tough people,” Trump said in an interview with Breitbart in March. “But they don’t play it tough — until they go to a certain point, and then it would be very bad, very bad.” On Tuesday, he accused his Democratic opponents of orchestrating a coup.
If impeachment is about a pattern of behavior — if it’s about the sum total of a transgressive, unethical and unlawful presidency — then this rhetoric must be part of the final account. And it is a difficult case; we don’t want to criminalize speech. But presidential rhetoric isn’t just speech — it is a form of power, and like most of his other powers, Trump has been abusing it.
MOSCOW — President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said on Wednesday that he would not mind if the White House made public his talks with President Trump at a summit meeting last year, because there was nothing incriminating in their conversations.
Just five days earlier, Mr. Putin’s spokesman had said the Kremlin would not want records of the two presidents’ talks released. But Mr. Putin, a former K.G.B. spy, said his previous job had taught him that any conversation he had could be published.
“Therefore, when they tried to spin another scandal over our meeting with President Trump in Helsinki, we told the administration directly: If someone wants to find out something, publish; we are not against it,” the Russian president said at an energy conference in Moscow. “I can assure you there was nothing there that could compromise President Trump.”
The Kremlin spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, said on Friday that Moscow would not want to see Mr. Trump’s and Mr. Putin’s conversations made public, amid the uproar caused by the White House’s release of an account of a call between Mr. Trump and President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine.
Their motives in addressing the matter were unclear, but if nothing else, the conflicting comments by Mr. Peskov and Mr. Putin keep Russia in the conversation about Mr. Trump’s conduct. They could even goad the Democrats who are conducting an impeachment inquiry to dig further into Mr. Trump’s conversations with world leaders.
The true nature of Mr. Trump’s relationship with Mr. Putin has been shrouded in mystery and is a subject of intense interest given the evidence that Russia interfered in the 2016 election to benefit Mr. Trump, who has adopted a friendlier stance toward Moscow than his predecessors. Multiple times after talking with his Russian counterpart, Mr. Trump has said he was inclined to believe Mr. Putin, who denies election meddling, over American intelligence agencies.
When asked on Wednesday about whether Russia intended to intervene into the 2020 election in the United States, Mr. Putin, in typical fashion, appeared to make a joke of the question.
“I will tell you a secret — yes, we will surely do this, just to make you joyful over there,” Mr. Putin said, provoking a round of applause from the crowd, consisting of Russia’s top officials and the heads of a number of Russian and foreign energy companies. “Just don’t tell anyone,” he added.
The 2018 Russia-United States meeting in Helsinki was the first and so far the only full-scale official bilateral meeting between the two leaders, though they have also had several less-formal encounters. What exactly transpired between Mr. Putin and Mr. Trump during their two-hour private conversation there has been a subject of intense interest ever since.
The two presidents were accompanied only by their interpreters, and some congressional Democrats have called for Mr. Trump’s interpreter, Marina Gross, to testify about what she had heard.
As for Mr. Trump’s conversation with Mr. Zelensky, Mr. Putin defended the phone call, saying that he saw “nothing compromising” in the reconstructed transcript.
In the call, Mr. Trump pressed Mr. Zelensky to have his government investigate the conduct of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. in connection with Ukraine, though no evidence of misconduct by Mr. Biden has surfaced. He also asked the Ukrainian president to cooperate with an investigation into a debunked theory that Ukraine, not Russia, had intervened in the 2016 election to benefit the Democrats.
“President Trump turned to his colleague asking to investigate possible corruption deals of former administration officials,” Mr. Putin said. “Any state leader had to do the same.”
He added that there was nothing in the phone conversation that would suggest that Mr. Trump demanded Mr. Zelensky “provide him with the compromising materials at all cost,” and that Mr. Trump didn’t “threaten to cut aid to Ukraine” during the call. Some of Mr. Trump’s critics argue that in fact, he did imply a link between Ukraine’s cooperation and American support.
In Russia, where there is little public oversight over government officials, let alone the head of state, it has been hard for many people to see the political turmoil in the United States as anything more than a trivial matter. Mr. Putin, for instance, said that the Democrats were just trying to use any pretext, however minor, to attack Mr. Trump.
“It became clear that there was no collusion between Russia and the Trump team; it was even confirmed by Mr. Mueller during his investigation,” Mr. Putin said of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. “They now found another pretext, now connected with Ukraine.”
Reducing the number of people allowed to resettle in America will leave thousands trapped in horrendous situations.
The sea-washed, sunset gates of the United States are being closed to the huddled masses yearning to breathe free. President Trump and his administration have slashed the Refugee Resettlement Program, which allows people fleeing war, persecution and famine to legally move to the United States. 
On Thursday, the administration announced that it would accept only 18,000 refugees during the next 12 months, a stark reduction from the already low current limit of 30,000. By comparison, roughly 85,000 refugees were resettled in 2016 under the Obama administration.
The administration has justified the move by claiming the need to focus its energy on the humanitarian and security crisis along the southern border and on the backlogged immigration cases in American courts. Earlier, a Trump administration official had claimed that refugees pose “enormous security challenges” to the country. But coming to the United States as a refugee is the most difficult way to enter this country, because refugees go through a very thorough vetting process.
I know this because it took my family seven years to be approved for refugee resettlement in the United States after we had to flee political strife in the West African country of Togo. During those seven long years, I lost two brothers to disease and malnutrition. I became ill and bedridden but fought to survive because I did not want my mother to cry again the way she had cried when my brothers died.
Our problems began in 1993 when Eyadema Gnassingbé, then the president of Togo, started a campaign of political violence and intimidation to crush popular demands for democratic elections and free speech.
My father, a soldier in the Togolese army, was forced to watch the execution of 14 of his colleagues in Lomé, the capital. Mr. Gnassingbé ordered the executions to punish soldiers he believed supported democratic reforms and to terrorize others into complete obedience. My father feared that he would eventually be asked to prove his loyalty by participating in these murders. He fled to Benin, bordering Togo in the east.
For weeks, my mother was unable to locate my father. She took my brothers and me across Togo’s western border to her maternal homeland in Ghana. Several months later, we found out that my father had made it to Benin. We traveled back through Togo to join him.
We applied for political asylum in a refugee camp the United Nations set up in Benin to assist the thousands fleeing Togo. We lived in various refugee camps, battling disease, malnutrition and the constant fear of being found out. We mostly ate a meal of water and corn flour with a soup made of palm oil and salt. We could not afford seasonings or vegetables.
Apart from the constant food insecurity, we had to hide our real identities; we could never reveal that our father had been a soldier in the Togolese military. There were men looking for him. Every time we saw strangers in our neighborhood, we panicked because we feared they had come for our father.
After six years, in 1999, we were selected by the State Department to interview in Cotonou, Benin’s largest city, for resettlement. We could not afford the fare to get there. My parents sold all our belongings to get the money for the journey. Once there, we relocated to another refugee camp and went through several rounds of interviews with American and United Nations agencies, repeatedly recounting why we fled Togo and why we could not go back.
After the State Department determined that my parents were telling the truth and our situation was dire, we went through background and health checks before it finally approved us for resettlement. We were lucky: Only 1 percent of the millions of refugees around the world will ever receive a lifeline like the one we received.
On a bitter cold February morning in 2000, we arrived in upstate New York. The new beginning was difficult. Learning a new language and adjusting to American culture and customs proved demanding. With limited English language skills, my parents struggled to find work that could support our family.
I was 9. I had never been to school, could neither read nor write and spoke no English. An amazing group of committed teachers helped. It took me three years to learn to read and write.
I went to a great public school with teachers and guidance counselors who encouraged my curiosity and taught me that it was fine to ask for things like extended time on exams and after-school tutoring.
Now I am a graduate student at Yale, working on a Ph.D. in history, working toward being a historian, motivated by my desire to understand how a country like Togo came to be such a politically unstable place.
The refugee resettlement program is why I am alive today and able to dream of becoming a historian. Drastically reducing the number of refugees allowed to resettle in America will leave thousands of vulnerable people trapped in horrendous situations like what my family endured.
There are few places in the world where stories like mine are possible. We are alive and thriving because of a remarkable program that helped my family escape political persecution and allowed us to build a new life here — and showed us the best of America, a country we are proud to call home.
President Trump and his supporters now have at least one unifying, if inaccurate, message against the impeachment inquiry. It is, they say, an unconstitutional coup.
Mr. Trump posted that conspiratorial message on Twitter on Tuesday night, saying, “As I learn more and more each day, I am coming to the conclusion that what is taking place is not an impeachment, it is a COUP, intended to take away the Power of the People.” Early Wednesday, the president tweeted out a ready-for-TV video made by his re-election campaign, repeating the “coup” claim against a backdrop of grainy shots of House Democrats and Joseph R. Biden Jr.
On Wednesday afternoon, the Trump campaign announced that it would be rotating the ad into an existing $8 million campaign, for broadcast on national cable outlets and on digital platforms.
His use of the phrase follows repeated assertions on conservative media, including by high-profile right-wing personalities and outlets such as Tucker Carlson, Breitbart, Rush Limbaugh and “Fox & Friends.” Beginning with Sean Hannity at 9:30 p.m. on Tuesday, talk of a “coup” was discussed nearly every hour on Fox News, by hosts and surrogates. Often, the president’s tweet was shown onscreen and read verbatim.
The definition of a coup d’état is the sudden illegal overthrowing of a government by a small group. An impeachment is a legal, constitutional process by which Congress accuses high officers of the federal government of misconduct.
“To call an impeachment process an attempted coup is dangerous because it aligns with those who believe in ‘deep state’ conspiracies,” said Joan Donovan, director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at Harvard. “Across different platforms, these deep state conspiracy theories are functioning as disinformation that bring the country into further turmoil about the legitimacy of the presidency.”
This episode underscores the way that disinformation now proliferates via fast-moving partisan cable news and energetic social media communities. Mr. Trump’s tweets are part of his familiar playbook: He escalates accusations born in right-wing media, portraying himself as the victim of an unsubstantiated scheme. His followers often jump in and amplify the messages online, which are then picked right back up on conservative shows and news outlets.
Often, the accusations deflect attention from further inquiries. Much of the discussion on cable news on Wednesday morning was about his “coup” tweet and less about developments in the impeachment inquiry.
“This isn’t just about the internet and the effect of toxic social media communities,” said Jennifer Grygiel, a professor at Syracuse University who studies social media. “It’s a sign that the president is ramping up his propaganda efforts, and that it has entered a new phase.”
After a clear conspiratorial narrative about the attempted “coup” was established and promoted by mainstream conservative outlets, the work of online amplification began. One of its driving voices, Tom Fitton, the president of Judicial Watch, the conservative group that recently sued the Justice Department for records on Mr. Biden and Ukraine, has participated heavily in hyperpartisan social media communities to further amplify the claim.
For instance, on r/The_Donald, a quarantined community of the online bulletin board Reddit, supporters of the president often trade in disinformation and coordinate the spread of pro-administration conspiracy theories across different platforms. There, Mr. Fitton has posted 79 times since the beginning of September, rallying members by encouraging them to tune into Mr. Hannity’s show to learn about the coup conspiracy, and generally pushing the theory as a hot-button issue.
Mr. Fitton said in an interview that President Trump had faced constant lawless and constitutional harassment by Congress. He added that the quarantine of r/The_Donald — which warns readers about the forum’s content — was “convenient” and that Twitter was a “more impactful” medium these days.
The coup conspiracy stretches “across platforms as the president’s followers are on social media such as Reddit, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube,” Professor Grygiel said. “But it is important to remember that he is the one in power. He uses feedback from these platforms and communities to his advantage.”
Indeed, Mr. Trump’s claims of a coup date back as early as the beginning of this year, even arguing that the investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III into Russia’s election interference was an “attempted coup.” Mr. Trump has referred to coups seven times on Twitter during his presidency, all in 2019, and many times the claims were cut from segments on right-wing cable news.
The claims grew in the last week. Talk of a “coup” became common among guests on Fox News, including on programs as varied as daytime talk shows like “Outnumbered” and “The Five,” and more widely watched prime-time shows like “The Ingraham Angle.”
“It’s no accident,” said Doug Heye, a former spokesman for the Republican National Committee. “I’ve been hearing this word being used for well over a year now and in part because it’s really seeped through on conservative media.”
An hour after Mr. Trump tweeted the “coup” conspiracy on Tuesday, Senator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat running for president, weighed in. She sent a tweet to Jack Dorsey, the chief executive of Twitter, saying it was “time to do something” about Mr. Trump’s being allowed to use the platform to essentially spread and magnify the flawed claim.
Ms. Harris also wrote an open letter on her campaign letterhead to Mr. Dorsey, calling on Mr. Trump to be barred for tweets that could incite violence.
Twitter said it had received Ms. Harris’s letter and that the company intended to respond. In June, Twitter announced that it would soon start placing notices on top of certain “newsworthy” tweets — say, from a world leader like Mr. Trump — that the tweets violated the company’s rules about abusive behavior but that Twitter also determined it was in the public’s interest for the content to remain online.
But so far, Twitter said, it has not yet applied the new policy.
State prosecutors in Manhattan are seeking the records as part of a criminal investigation into hush-money payments. 
The Justice Department on Wednesday asked a federal judge to temporarily block a subpoena from the Manhattan district attorney that would require President Trump to turn over eight years of his personal and corporate tax returns. 
Mr. Trump has been fighting off an attempt by the office of the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., to obtain his tax returns as it investigates hush-money payments made to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels.
After the subpoena was sent in late August, Mr. Trump’s lawyers made a sweeping — and untested — argument that a sitting president cannot be subjected to a criminal investigation, especially by local prosecutors. 
In its filing, Mr. Trump’s own Justice Department did not say whether it agreed with his position that presidents cannot be investigated. But citing “significant constitutional issues” raised by the president’s lawyers, the department said the court should stop enforcement of the subpoena while it takes time to consider the case.
The Justice Department is not part of the case but had told the judge it wanted to offer an opinion because of the importance of the constitutional questions.
The department’s lawyers argued in the filing that a delay would not hurt Mr. Vance’s investigation but would prevent the “irreparable harm” they argued the president would suffer if he had to comply with the demand to turn over his tax returns and other financial information before his case was considered. 
A spokesman for Mr. Vance declined to comment.
Mr. Vance’s office has been examining whether any New York State laws were broken when Mr. Trump and his company reimbursed Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and fixer, for payments he made to Ms. Daniels, who said she had an affair with the president. Mr. Trump has denied an affair. 
The subpoena, which demanded Mr. Trump’s personal and corporate returns dating to 2011, was sent by the district attorney’s office to the president’s accounting firm, Mazars USA, not to Mr. Trump himself. But his lawyers have argued the difference is immaterial. They sued last month to block the subpoena, arguing that a sitting president could not be “investigated, indicted or otherwise subjected to criminal process.” 
Mr. Vance’s office, in court papers, has accused the president and his lawyers of trying to invent a “new presidential ‘tax return’ privilege” by arguing that he should not be required to comply with the subpoena.
The judge, Victor Marrero of Federal District Court in Manhattan, has not yet ruled on the merits of the president’s argument. 
It is an open question whether sitting presidents are immune from prosecution while in office. The Constitution does not explicitly address the issue, and the Supreme Court has not answered the question.
Federal prosecutors are barred from charging a sitting president with a crime because the Justice Department has decided that presidents have temporary immunity while they are in office. 
But that position does not preclude an investigation. Presidents, including Mr. Trump, have been subjects of federal criminal investigations while in office. The Justice Department memos also do not apply to local prosecutors like the Manhattan district attorney.
The president’s lawyers have vigorously fought to shield his personal financial information. They have sued to block attempts by congressional Democrats and New York lawmakers to gain access to his tax returns and financial records. They also successfully challenged a California law requiring presidential primary candidates to release their tax returns.
In opposing the subpoena, Mr. Trump’s lawyers have argued that Mr. Vance’s investigation was politically motivated, calling the subpoena “a bad-faith effort to harass the president by obtaining and exposing his confidential financial information, not a legitimate attempt to enforce New York law.”
Mr. Vance’s office rejected Mr. Trump’s claim that the district attorney was planning to expose the president’s personal financial information as “purely speculative — and, frankly, outrageous.”
Anything obtained by the subpoena would be protected by rules governing grand jury secrecy unless it became evidence as part of a criminal case. 
The filing on Wednesday was signed by Joshua E. Gardner, a lawyer in the Justice Department’s civil division, and included the names of other Justice Department lawyers and the United States attorney in Manhattan, Geoffrey S. Berman.
The lawyers also asked the judge to keep the case in federal court, which they argued is the proper forum to consider the argument the president has raised. Mr. Vance’s office has said the challenge to the subpoena should be heard in a state court. 
WASHINGTON — The Trump administration’s top sanctions official will depart the Treasury Department this month, leaving a void in President Trump’s national security team as he ramps up a maximum pressure campaign to bring Iran to the negotiating table over its nuclear program.
Sigal Mandelker, the department’s under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence, has been one of the administration’s most hawkish members on Iran and has spearheaded the White House’s aggressive use of sanctions around the world. She plans to return to the private sector.
“She is a fierce advocate for effectively leveraging our powerful economic tools to make an impact for a safer world,” Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement. “Sigal’s steadfast devotion to mission will be missed, as she is truly a unique talent.”
Mr. Mnuchin said Ms. Mandelker told him over the summer of her intention to leave.
Ms. Mandelker’s departure adds to an exodus within Treasury’s senior ranks this year. In recent months, Mr. Mnuchin’s chief of staff and top spokesman as well as senior officials responsible for trade and financial regulation policy have departed.
In an interview on Wednesday, Ms. Mandelker said she was returning to the private sector for personal reasons, pointing to the grinding intensity of the role. She was confirmed to the job by the Senate in June 2017.
Under Ms. Mandelker’s watch, the department has expanded the way the United States uses sanctions, making them a primary tool for executing foreign policy in places such as Iran, Venezuela and Russia.
“We’ve focused on more designations in increasingly sophisticated ways across a wider spectrum of programs,” Ms. Mandelker said. “We have a limited number of resources, so you want to maximize the use of those resources.”
Over the past two years, the United States has placed sanctions on and later delisted Rusal, the Russian aluminum giant, targeted Lebanese lawmakers for being part of Hezbollah and took steps to cut off Iran’s central bank from the international financial system.
Ms. Mandelker noted her work targeting human rights abuses and kleptocracy as being particularly important to her and said her successor would need to remain focused on enforcing the Treasury’s net of Iran sanctions, which countries such as China have been working to evade.
The administration’s sanctions policy has come under scrutiny since Mr. Trump took office and moved to unravel an international agreement over Iran’s nuclear program and resume economic sanctions. The United States stepped up its actions against Iran this summer, imposing sanctions on the country’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, and targeting an elaborate Iranian shipping network that it uses to illicitly sell oil.
The Treasury Department was also forced by Congress to press ahead with sanctions on Russia out of concern that Mr. Trump would roll them back, given his affinity for its president, Vladimir V. Putin.
Enacting sanctions can be especially complicated under Mr. Trump, who tends to announce sanctions decisions on Twitter — sometimes to the surprise of department officials.
The intensity of the job was evident last week when Ms. Mandelker was participating in a moderated discussion about Iran sanctions on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly summit. Protesters approached the stage and said her policies crippling Iran’s economy amounted to human rights abuses.
“It’s a grueling and exhausting job, particularly given how prominent this tool has become in the execution of U.S. foreign policy,” said Elizabeth Rosenberg, a former Treasury official who now works at the Center for a New American Security.
Known for being exacting and demanding as a manager, Ms. Mandelker said she worked to improve communication and mentoring within her team.
Ms. Mandelker, the daughter of Holocaust survivors, previously served as deputy assistant attorney general in the Justice Department’s criminal division and as an assistant United States attorney in the Southern District of New York before joining the law firm Proskauer Rose. She said she had not decided on her next job.
Justin Muzinich, Treasury’s deputy secretary, will fill Ms. Mandelker’s role on an acting basis.
ROME — The “ancestral homeland” in Italy’s Abruzzo region that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said he was looking forward to visiting on Thursday barely had enough notice to organize a welcoming ceremony.
“It all happened so fast,” said Guido Angelilli, the mayor of Pacentro, adding, “They asked us to keep a low profile.”
At least the mayor could acknowledge the visit was happening at all, a small consolation in these times of high-flying intrigue.
As Washington seethes amid accusations of quid pro quos, conspiracy theories and abuses of power, Italy, with its brilliant early autumn light and amenable political leaders, has become a recent destination for two central officials in the Trump administration who are in the thick of the impeachment inquiry.
Their comings and goings have provoked some consternation, and more than a little speculation, in the Italian media. The Italian government has so far refused to say a word about a trip to the capital last week by Attorney General William P. Barr to meet with Italian intelligence officers as part of President Trump’s efforts to discredit the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 United States election.
[Echoes of Benghazi criticism and anger confront Pompeo in the Ukraine inquiry.]
On Wednesday, Mr. Pompeo confirmed in a news conference in Rome that “I was on the phone call” between President Trump and the president of Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky, that is at the heart of an impeachment inquiry into Mr. Trump. But he also said “I am looking forward to meeting all my cousins” during his visit to Pacentro on Thursday.
Mr. Pompeo’s trip to Italy, which includes a meeting with Pope Francis on Thursday, has been on his official calendar for weeks, and it has focused on tariffs, Libya and Iran sanctions.
But Mr. Pompeo couldn’t escape the impeachment inquiry consuming Washington as he dashed off an angry letter to House Democrats who had issued subpoenas on an expedited timetable to State Department officials involved with Ukraine. (“That’s unacceptable,” he said Wednesday.)
The visit, however, could also serve as a welcome getaway from the impeachment inquiry, at least for a day.
Mr. Pompeo has carved out time to drive east to Pacentro, his great-grandfather’s hometown, where Mr. Angelilli said the Trump official is the second most famous export after Gaetano Ciccone, the paternal grandfather of Madonna.
Mr. Pompeo’s maternal side traces back to nearby Caramanico Terme, which in 2017 seized on his elevation to director of the C.I.A. to enlist his help in solving the great cold case of 1950.
“Unknown thieves stole the ancient statue of Our Lady of the Assumption,” the then-mayor wrote to Mr. Pompeo, imploring his assistance. “We hope you will not find our request inappropriate or strange.”
An altogether different, and much more recent, Italian mystery has drawn the intense interest of the Trump administration.
In his efforts to discredit the Russia report of the former special counsel Robert S. Mueller III, Mr. Trump sent Mr. Barr in search of a little-known, long-missing, Maltese professor who has figured prominently in unsubstantiated theories about how the Russia investigation got started.
Joseph Mifsud, a former political science faculty member at Link Campus University, a school in Rome, is best known for telling a Trump campaign adviser that the Russians had “thousands” of emails belonging to Hillary Clinton. The tip, when relayed to Australia’s top diplomat in London, and eventually to the F.B.I., helped plant the seeds for Mr. Mueller’s investigation.
Mr. Trump, his personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani, many Fox News commentators and House Republicans have spread the theory that Mr. Mifsud is not a professor with links to Russia, as reported in the Mueller inquiry, but that he is an asset of Western intelligence, and possibly the C.I.A., planted by the Obama administration to trap the Trump campaign adviser, George Papadopoulos.
“Mifsud was an Italian operative handled by the C.I.A.,” Mr. Papadopoulos wrote on Twitter on Sept. 27, the day Mr. Barr was in Italy. “Italy holds the keys to the kingdom. Right government, right time.”
The Italian prime minister is Giuseppe Conte, whom Mr. Trump has called “my friend Giuseppe.” In August, Mr. Trump endorsed Mr. Conte in a Tweet, albeit one that misspelled his name, amid an Italian government crisis.
Asked whether Mr. Trump personally asked for Mr. Conte’s help on the Mifsud matter, Mr. Conte’s spokesman, Rocco Casalino, did not respond.
While the Italian government has gone officially silent on the issue, Mr. Conte seemed to be helping out, according to reports in the Italian news media.
Italy’s Corriere della Sera newspaper reported that Mr. Conte, who oversees the country’s intelligence services, authorized Mr. Barr and John H. Durham, the United States attorney in Connecticut, to receive full access to the upper echelon of Italy’s intelligence agencies during their visits to Rome. Mr. Durham is leading the Justice Dept. inquiry into the origins of the Mueller investigation.
The Attorney General pressed the agencies, according to the Corriere, on whether they had helped Mr. Mifsud vanish. The Daily Beast reported that Mr. Barr and Mr. Durham had holed up in the American embassy listening to a tape of a deposition Mr. Mifsud made when he applied for Italian police protection. Italian officials have refused to confirm the existence of such a tape.
Present and former officials in Italy’s intelligence services said they knew of no connections between the agency and Mr. Mifsud.
Mr. Mifsud hasn’t been seen since October 2017, though il Foglio, an Italian newspaper, discovered that he had been living in university housing until summer 2018. On Tuesday, they published a photo of him in Switzerland with a May 21, 2018, copy of Zürichsee-Zeitung, a Swiss newspaper, on a table in front of him for proof of life.
At Link University on Wednesday morning, the school’s president, Vincenzo Scotti, a former Italian interior and foreign affairs minister, shook his head at all the intrigue surrounding his school and Mr. Mifsud.
“He’s a chatterbox,” he said disparagingly of Mr. Mifsud, adding that the investigation by Mr. Barr and the Trump administration seemed to be grasping at straws. “Do they have no other arm with which to defend themselves?”
For Mr. Pompeo, Italy seemed to offer at least some relief from the pressures of the impeachment inquiry. Advisors said his meetings with the Italians were full of good will, and even the protesters came bearing gifts.
On Tuesday, as he met with the prime minister, a personality on a satirical program on Italian TV burst forth to present him with a chunk of Parmesan cheese to protest American tariffs.
“Excuse me, Mr. Pompeo,” she said to the secretary of state, who looked part bewildered, part appreciative. “An Italian present.”
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. House leaders threatened to subpoena the White House if it did not hand over a broad range of records related to the impeachment inquiry by Friday. 
Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Adam Schiff warned that any attempt to stonewall the House’s request or intimidate witnesses would be construed as obstruction worthy of impeachment itself.
President Trump responded with a series of angry outbursts. In an uncomfortable Oval Office meeting with the president of Finland, Mr. Trump declared that Democrats were “guilty as hell” of corrupting the 2016 election, that former Vice President Joe Biden was “corrupt” and “less smart now than he ever was,” and that a C.I.A. whistle-blower was “a spy in my opinion.”
The State Department’s inspector general briefed lawmakers about a packet of documents he gave no credence to — assorted news clippings and conspiratorial memos about Democratic malfeasance in Ukraine — that had been delivered to the secretary of state by someone purporting to be in the White House. Here’s a roundup.
2. Bernie Sanders had two stents inserted to treat an artery blockage and is canceling campaign events in the coming days.
The Vermont senator, 78, experienced chest discomfort at a campaign event in Las Vegas, where he is currently recovering. His campaign said he was “conversing and in good spirits.” 
Mr. Sanders had traveled to Las Vegas for a forum, held two years after the deadliest mass shooting in American history, that aimed to bring gun policy back to the forefront of the Democratic primary.
And it’s official: The Oct. 15 debate will be the biggest ever, with 12 candidates onstage at once. The Times’s National editor will be moderating it, and he’s open to your question suggestions.
3. What happens when 526 voters from across the country spend a weekend together? 
Put a diverse group of people in a room, the political scientists James Fishkin and Larry Diamond argue, and they’re likely to mute their harshest views and wrestle more deeply with rebuttals. 
That was the idea behind a four-day experiment at a resort outside of Dallas, ahead of the 2020 election. Here’s what they learned.
4. Global stocks slid again as investors fretted over slowing global growth. 
The S&P 500 dropped 1.8 percent, its worst day since late August. Stocks in Europe tumbled.
Adding to concerns, the W.T.O. granted the U.S. permission to impose tariffs on as much as $7.5 billion on European products as part of a long-running complaint over European subsidies for the planemaker Airbus. 
Separately, a Boeing engineer on the 737 Max filed an ethics complaint this year saying a system that might have reduced crash risks was rejected over its cost.
5. The Trump administration is moving to collect DNA samples from detained migrants for entry into a national criminal database. 
A new federal regulation would give immigration officers the authority to collect DNA in detention facilities anywhere in the country that are holding more than 40,000 people. It would also allow the government to collect DNA from children, as well as those who seek asylum. Above, a Customs and Border Protection boat traveling the Rio Grande near Laredo, Tex.
Meanwhile, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency has been using data from places like state D.M.V. databases and social networks to help make its deportations more efficient, a Times Magazine investigation found.
And in case you missed it, our reporters provided an inside look at President Trump’s border war, including his request for a snake-filled moat and his suggestion that soldiers could shoot migrants in the legs to slow them down.
6. Two stories broke late this afternoon:
Amber Guyger, a white former Dallas police officer who fatally shot her unarmed black neighbor last year, was sentenced to 10 years in prison. Sentencing guidelines ranged up to 99 years. 
And lung damage from vaping-related illnesses resembles chemical burns, the Mayo Clinic reported. Doctors there examined samples of lung tissue from 17 patients, all of which looked as if the people had been exposed to toxic chemicals, researchers said.
7. It was a season of extraordinary numbers for baseball. Now it’s October, and the postseason is anyone’s game.
The Washington Nationals will play the Los Angeles Dodgers on Thursday night after defeating the Milwaukee Brewers in the National League wild-card game. Juan Soto, above, drove in the winning runs just in the nick of time. 
Tonight, the Oakland A’s and Tampa Bay Rays will meet for the American League wild-card game. Win or lose, the A’s are moving forward with plans to leave the Oakland Coliseum for a new stadium. Our tech reporter, who lives in Oakland, writes about the beauty in America’s ugliest ballpark.
8. Sibeth Ndiaye stands out. And that’s the point.
Ms. Ndiaye is the first black spokeswoman to represent a French president. Unlike many of her colleagues, she didn’t attend elite French universities. And she wears a bright mix of colors to work, in jarring contrast to the sea of somber suits that surrounds her.
In a country where clothing is deeply embedded in the national identity, Ms. Ndiaye’s relaxed fashion choices have become a lightning rod for discussions around race, gender and body shape in France. “The way I dress is almost a political statement,” she told The Times.
Paris Fashion Week just ended and our chief fashion critic sounded off on next season’s looks. In sum: “2020 is coming. Time to get dressed.”
9. “We’re all going back to that initial nerdy impulse of what made us fall in love with musical theater”
You might know him from “Spring Awakening,” “Hamilton” or “Mindhunter.” But Jonathan Groff feels most like himself as the nebbishy hero of “Little Shop of Horrors,” and he’s returning off Broadway to prove it.
In other arts news, the opera superstar Plácido Domingo resigned from his position as general director of Los Angeles Opera amid allegations that he had sexually harassed multiple women over several decades.
10. And finally, a comet in time for the holidays.
A few weeks ago we told you about a possible comet found by a Crimean astronomer. That maybe-comet is now definitely a comet from another star — only the second of its kind ever seen — and will make its closest approach to the sun on Dec. 7.
Known as 2I/Borisov, the comet will be visible in the southern sky to astronomers, and perhaps even to civilians, for several months. The interstellar comet arrives wrapped in a cloud of toxic cyanogen gas. But don’t worry — it won’t come close enough to Earth to cause trouble.
Have a stellar night. 
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European, African or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
WASHINGTON — President Trump was watching television in the White House on Wednesday morning when cable news channels started airing Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, warning at a news conference that any attempts by the president to stonewall their impeachment investigation would be viewed as obstruction.
Mr. Trump did not wait for Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schiff to finish before responding. First he attacked Ms. Pelosi on Twitter, saying she was neglecting the work of Congress “and trying to win an election through impeachment.” Then he tweeted again, sharing a campaign video that accused Democrats of trying to undo the results of the 2016 election.
He continued those attacks later in the afternoon, both before and after a meeting with Sauli Niinisto, the president of Finland, and became increasingly angry as he went on.
Mr. Trump has long believed that he is the best communicator in the White House, but as the presidential campaign picks up its pace and the prospect of his impeachment becomes more real, he seems to be its only empowered communicator, a one-man war room responding to developments almost hour by hour. And that is making many Republicans anxious.
For now, the White House has no organized response to impeachment, little guidance for surrogates to spread a consistent message even if it had developed one, and minimal coordination between the president’s legal advisers and his political ones. And West Wing aides are divided on everything from who is in charge to whether, after two years of the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, impeachment even poses a serious political threat to the president.
“This is a very different animal than the Mueller investigation,” said Josh Holmes, a former top aide to Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader. “It’s a political question, not a legal one. They need to persuade Republicans in the House and the Senate of a bunch of really good arguments to have the partywide insulation the president is going to prefer going into this fight.”
And the White House has a narrow runway to adjust and tighten its response, with just over a week until the congressional recess ends. At that point, Republicans will return from their home districts and face questions about Mr. Trump’s tweets and condemnation of the whistle-blower — questions they might have difficulty answering.
“At this point, the president can hold his own,” Mr. Holmes added. “But I think they should be concerned with how Republicans handle it when they get back and for that, it probably does take a little bit of structure.”
For weeks, the most visible defender of the president has been Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer, who is himself a central figure in the allegations that Mr. Trump pressured the Ukrainian government to find dirt on Democrats, leading several of the president’s advisers to warn that Mr. Giuliani’s freelance television appearances do him more harm than good.
But Mr. Trump has told them that he is pleased with the performances, and spent part of Saturday giving Mr. Giuliani talking points for the Sunday show circuit.
Others have urged the president to tone down his language, including his repeated use of the word “treason.” But Mr. Trump, who has frequently abandoned norms and paid little in terms of personal political consequences for doing so, has not changed his behavior. That has led some advisers, like Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, to settle into a hands-off approach. Mr. Mulvaney told associates he spent part of Sunday on a golf course outside Washington.
What’s left is Mr. Trump acting alone, and poised to live-tweet his own impeachment, complete with all-caps obscenities, alarming accusations of treason and warnings that impeachment is really a “coup.”
During his public appearances with Mr. Niinisto on Wednesday, Mr. Trump seemed as riled up as he has at any point in his presidency, railing against his opponents, mangling the facts to fit his preferred narrative and making allegations without evidence. Flush with anger and gesturing sharply, he spent most of his time on offense attacking his critics using words like “lowlife,” “dishonest,” “corrupt,” “shifty” and “fraud.”
Behind the scenes, Mr. Trump has seesawed from projecting confidence that there is a political benefit from the impeachment fight to lashing out at aides, blaming them for the fact that he is entangled by it in the first place.
In an email, the White House press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, rejected questions about the West Wing’s approach to the impeachment inquiry.
“We have stated this several times,” she said. “There has not been any effort to put together a war room. The president did nothing wrong and we are still working over here.”
The confusion in the White House is leaving conservatives who want to help support Mr. Trump without a clear road map for how to do so. At a meeting on Wednesday morning with conservatives and Capitol Hill aides, White House officials were still taking the temperature on the potential political fallout of impeachment, rather than offering any instructions about their path going forward.
Paul Teller, an aide in the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, quizzed the group about whether it thought a long or short impeachment process would play better with the president’s base. Mr. Teller also told the group that he believed Mr. Trump would want to see Mr. McConnell bring impeachment to a vote on the Senate floor, where Mr. Trump would be acquitted, rather than move to simply dismiss the charges.
Stephen Miller, Mr. Trump’s main domestic policy adviser, also briefly attended the meeting, but observed more than he spoke, according to a person familiar with what took place.
In the West Wing, aides who have seen Mr. Trump survive potentially debilitating scandals like the release of the “Access Hollywood” tape a month before the 2016 election, and the appointment of a special counsel with wide-ranging powers to investigate him, are shrugging off impeachment as just another bump in the road.
Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and a senior White House adviser, is not pushing for the creation of any sort of official “war room,” and has told colleagues he is comfortable with the current structure supporting the president — one that also gives him freewheeling power.
Kellyanne Conway, the White House counselor and one of Mr. Trump’s longest-serving aides, has told reporters that Trump supporters will not leave him because of impeachment. She joins a group that includes Jay Sekulow, one of the president’s personal lawyers, and other aides and allies, who believe that anything resembling a White House “war room” is needless and would make them look as if they were under siege.
“We won the Mueller probe,” Mr. Sekulow said on his afternoon radio show on Monday. “I tell you what. If Mueller was a war, this is a skirmish.”
But on Wednesday night, one White House official was anticipating changes with some staff members focused on the inquiry.
Other aides privately conceded that they did not know how the politics of the impeachment process would play out, and would like to see the White House Counsel’s Office bring back someone like Emmet T. Flood, the White House lawyer who oversaw the administration’s response to the special counsel’s investigation and worked on President Bill Clinton’s legal team during his impeachment.
Mr. Flood left the administration in June.
Some are also starting to notice small public cracks in Republican support.
“Starting to encounter Republicans who wonder if maybe the President should step aside for Pence,” Erick Erickson, the conservative blogger and radio host, wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. “They’re absolutely in the minority on the GOP side, but there does seem to be a fatigue setting in — tired of always fighting and always having to defend.”
While Mr. Trump has been focused in recent days on defending himself, his advisers have continued the assault on Joseph R. Biden, Jr., the former vice president and current presidential candidate, hoping it will cut through the impeachment noise. Mr. Kushner, who has been overseeing campaign messaging on impeachment, also personally signed off on a new round of campaign ads attacking Mr. Biden and his son Hunter Biden.
Mr. Trump insisted on Wednesday that he was not trying to damage Mr. Biden in order to knock him out of the race — even while he attacked him.
“I’d rather run against Biden than almost any of those candidates,” he told reporters. “And I think they’re all weak, but I think Biden has never been a smart guy and he’s less smart now than he ever was.”
The Times reported that the president considered the moat, to be infested with alligators and snakes, but Mr. Trump attributed the story to The Washington Post.
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Wednesday angrily denied a New York Times article that said he privately discussed fortifying barriers along the Mexican border with a reptile-filled moat to deter illegal border crossings.
“Now the press is trying to sell the fact that I wanted a Moat stuffed with alligators and snakes, with an electrified fence and sharp spikes on top, at our Southern Border,” Mr. Trump posted on Twitter. “I may be tough on Border Security, but not that tough. The press has gone Crazy. Fake News!” 
Mr. Trump amplified his complaints during an Oval Office appearance with President Sauli Niinisto of Finland. But he attributed the article to reporters from The Washington Post rather than The Times. “It’s written by Washington Post people, so you know it’s inaccurate,” he said. “You know it’s probably a fraud.”
Taking aim at the owner of the The Post, the Amazon.com founder Jeff Bezos, Mr. Trump said that Mr. Bezos “ought to be ashamed of himself because what they do to his reputation — I think maybe it’s probably no good anyway, but what they do to his reputation with The Washington Post is a disgrace.”
The article, which appeared in Wednesday’s newspaper, was written by the Times reporters Michael D. Shear and Julie Hirschfeld Davis, and excerpted from their forthcoming book, “Border Wars: Inside Trump’s Assault on Immigration,” to be published on Tuesday by Simon & Schuster. The Washington Post had no role in either the article or the book.
“The article, an adaptation from Julie Davis and Michael Shear’s forthcoming book, was based on interviews with more than a dozen White House and Trump administration officials,” Eileen Murphy, a Times spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We are confident in the accuracy of the reporting.”
The Times article also reported that Mr. Trump “wanted the wall electrified, with spikes on top that could pierce human flesh.” But the president singled out for scorn the idea that “I wanted sharp spikes at the top” of border fencing, so that “it goes piercing through their skin.” 
“Never said it,” he added. “Never thought of it.” 
But two weeks ago, in a visit to the border in San Diego, Mr. Trump was asked whether he wanted his barrier to “have the spikes at the top.” “I do,” he responded.
In December, the president also tweeted an illustrated image of a proposed barrier that included a close-up insert showing it topped with spear-shaped spikes. 
Mr. Trump similarly rejected the idea that he had expressed a desire that the barrier be electrified — or “electrocuted,” as he put it.
“Are you talking to me?” President Trump asked, his brow creased in disgust.
He was staring at Jeff Mason, a Reuters reporter whom Mr. Trump had called on moments earlier during an East Room news conference with the president of Finland.
Such events, with the American president joined by a fellow head of state, are usually formal affairs. But Mr. Trump seemed to be in a stormy mood on Wednesday, lashing out on Twitter and in person at his enemies, real and perceived, as House Democrats pursue a formal impeachment inquiry against him.
One regular Trump boogeyman — the American news media — has come in for particular ire of late. Mr. Trump has tweaked his usual “fake news” sobriquet, now preferring the term “corrupt news.” Earlier on Wednesday, in the Oval Office, he attacked the credibility of The Washington Post over an article that outlined his interest in constructing an alligator- and snake-filled moat along the southern border. Mr. Trump appeared unaware that the article had been published by The New York Times.
Then came the exchange with Mr. Mason, which was emblematic of the president’s escalating attacks on the press.
Mr. Mason, a veteran White House correspondent, had posed a straightforward question: What did the president hope to achieve when he asked the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, about the Biden family’s dealings in his country?
Mr. Trump’s discursive reply ranged from his gripes about financial support for Europe to a shout-out to Senator Rob Portman of Ohio and included a comparison of Ukraine to “a wall between Russia and Europe — a big, wide, beautiful wall.” The substance of Mr. Mason’s question went unanswered, so the Reuters reporter tried again.
“The question, sir,” Mr. Mason said, “was what did you want President Zelensky to do about Vice President Biden and his son Hunter?”
Polite but persistent follow-ups are a White House correspondent’s stock in trade. But Mr. Trump expressed deep offense, interrupting Mr. Mason and instructing him to ask the Finnish president a question instead.
“Did you hear me? Did you hear me?” Mr. Trump said from his lectern. “Ask him a question. I’ve given you a long answer. Ask this gentleman a question. Don’t be rude.”
“I don’t want to be rude,” Mr. Mason replied. “I just wanted you to have a chance to answer the question that I asked you.”
Again, Mr. Trump deflected — this time with a verbal fusillade against journalists. “I’ve answered everything,” the president said. (He hadn’t.) “It’s a whole hoax, and you know who’s playing into the hoax? People like you and the fake news media that we have in this country — and, I say in many cases, the corrupt media, because you’re corrupt. Much of the media in this country is not just fake, it’s corrupt.”
Mr. Mason seems to have a knack for standing out at Finland-related events: Last year, he drew attention for a series of tough questions to Mr. Trump and President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia during their summit in Helsinki.
His calm on Wednesday won praise from fellow journalists. “Jeff Mason is a total pro,” a Washington Post reporter, Michael Scherer, wrote on Twitter. “That was textbook. Play the tape in journalism schools.”
Even after he moved on from Mr. Mason, Mr. Trump returned to his acid commentary on the press. “If the press were straight and honest and forthright and tough, we would be a far greater nation,” he said in closing.
Mr. Trump’s slashing criticism of the media has been denounced by news outlets and press advocates, in particular for the ways that autocrats around the world have invoked his remarks to justify cracking down on independent journalists. Almost uniformly before Mr. Trump, American presidents publicly promoted the role of journalism in a democracy, even if they groused over tough coverage.
In his recent fury, Mr. Trump has also pressed the boundaries of what was considered acceptable discourse in journalism. On Wednesday, the president fired off a tweet that included a profane word for manure, rendered in all capital letters. Soon after, Richard Davis, CNN’s head of standards, circulated a memo at the network noting that its journalists should feel free to use the word “in graphics, banners and headlines.”
“It is newsworthy that he wrote it and tweeted it out, and we should show and say it because the president sent it out just that way,” Mr. Davis wrote, according to a copy of the memo reviewed by The Times.
See the senators shilly-shally.
Down with Republican wimps.
You know the ones. They’re trying to avoid taking on Donald Trump while looking sort of sad about the way our president wanted to trade military aid to another country for dirt on a political opponent.
Or just evading. “I don’t know what law he’s violated yet,” said Senator Rick Scott of Florida.
This is not really to the point, given that Congress can remove a president for a terrible misuse of power that isn’t literally against a law. And if Scott’s goal was to dodge the whole matter, he certainly lost. On Wednesday, Trump said his but-about-Biden’s-son talk with the president of Ukraine was above reproach, adding, “I heard Rick Scott say that was a perfect conversation.”
Floridians, feel free to put up posters with that quote all over your neighborhoods.
It would take 67 senators to convict Trump if the House votes to impeach. That’s quite a lift given that the Republicans control the chamber 53 to 47. A lot of them are terrified that if they vote against the president, some Trump-loving jerk from Fred County will run against them in a primary, sending them off to a career lobbying for pharmaceutical companies way earlier than they anticipated.
So far the expressions of outrage are pretty darned muted. Well, Senators Mitt Romney and Ben Sasse did call the Ukraine story “troubling.”
People, which of these things could be reasonably defined as “troubling”?
A) Evidence that the president used his position to extort a rather helpless ally for the basest possible political motives.
B) A president who appeared to threaten to execute anyone who helped out a whistle-blower.
C) A delay in implementation of highway fund appropriations.
Romney is the senator from Utah, a job he could keep if he got caught torturing puppies. This was not meant to remind you of the time he drove to Canada with the family Irish setter in a crate on the station wagon’s roof. Time editor Anand Giridharadas already took care of that when he tweeted, “Mitt, it is time to strap the dog of courage onto the car of your constitutional obligations.”
Romney sees himself as a leader who’s going to bring back the old, good-mannered, classic-conservative version of the Republican Party. Which would certainly be lovely. But you can’t trust him to stay the course. He’s the guy who began running for the Senate blasting Trump’s “message of exclusion.” Later, when he needed more right-wing support, he began bragging that he was “more of a hawk on immigration than even the president.”
So feel free to tweet up a storm.
The awfulness of the Trump protectors may just drive a few principled Republicans off the team. For instance, Lindsey Graham has been comparing the impeachment movement to the Salem witch trials and demanding that the whistle-blower be forced to go public. Nobody wants to be referred to as “very much in the tradition of Lindsey Graham.”
In response to Graham’s tirade, Senate president pro tempore Chuck Grassley issued a statement demanding the whistle-blower be “heard out and protected.” Grassley is a much-respected veteran and it would be nice to see him go further. Even if a few cynics point out that he’s 86 years old and isn’t up for re-election until 2022.
And wait — how about Mitch McConnell? The Senate majority leader has been saying that even if there has to be an impeachment debate, it doesn’t have to be, you know, long.
“If it gets to the Senate, it will be up to every senator, especially the Republicans, to make sure Senator McConnell conducts it fairly and down the middle — this is too important not to do that,” said minority leader Chuck Schumer in an interview.
Schumer is being very diplomatic. McConnell has approximately as much history of being fair and down the middle as Attila the Hun. If he thought he could get away with it, McConnell would schedule the Senate debate for 3 to 4 o’clock on Thanksgiving morning.
We’ve heard lots of calls on Congress to behave more like the founding fathers in recent weeks. Which F.F. do you think Mitch McConnell most resembles? I put that question to several historians and they found it to be a real stumper. “You could argue John Adams is a little bit like Mitch McConnell,” William Galston of the Brookings Institution said reluctantly. Both men, he pointed out, were “stubborn, confident and highly partisan.” However, it’s tough to imagine Abigail Adams being accused of using her political connections to boost her family’s business interests, like a certain majority leader’s spouse.
“I can’t think of anyone who’s like him,” said Joanne Freeman of Yale. The question of who might play McConnell in a “Hamilton”-type production about Trump impeachment stumped her, too. (“Oh my gosh — a McConnell musical. Wow.”)
I am considering the guy who does Mr. Smithers’s voice on “The Simpsons.”
There’s a suspicion in Washington that a lot of Senate Republicans would be happy to turn on the president if there were some kind of super-secret impeachment ballot. This is probably true. How many of them would even want to have lunch with Donald Trump if he were, say, a school custodian?
Not even Lindsey Graham.
The president made a series of inaccurate claims as he sought to challenge the credibility of the investigation by House Democrats into his dealings with Ukraine. 
President Trump used two events at the White House with the president of Finland on Wednesday to challenge Democrats as they pressed ahead with their investigation into whether Mr. Trump had abused the power of his office in seeking political dirt from Ukraine. 
Here’s a fact check of his remarks. 
For days, Mr. Trump has criticized statements made by Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California, during a congressional hearing last week about the July 25 phone call between Mr. Trump and President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine. That call is part of a whistle-blower complaint that led Democrats to begin an impeachment inquiry.
The president, who often misquotes others, has repeatedly accused Mr. Schiff of “treason” and committing a “crime” for the way he presented the call. He escalated those attacks by claiming, without evidence, that Mr. Schiff had decided to fabricate the conversation after realizing that Mr. Trump “didn’t do anything wrong.”
Mr. Schiff did not claim to be reciting from a reconstructed transcript of the call and said he was conferring “the essence” of the conversation. But he did speak in first person, leaving an impression that he was quoting Mr. Trump. Later in the hearing, Mr. Schiff said that his “summary of the president’s call was meant to be at least part in parody.”
While Mr. Schiff’s account veered from the transcript in chronology and details at points, and seemed intended to draw attention to the implication that Mr. Trump was demanding something from Ukraine in return for the assistance the United States had provided the country, it generally tracked with the transcript’s version of what Mr. Trump said on the call.
Mr. Trump is also wrong that the transcript of the phone call released by the White House last week was “word for word.” In fact, a footnote in the document specifically cautions that it is “not a verbatim transcript.” 
According to Mr. Schiff, Mr. Trump told Mr. Zelensky: “We’ve been very good to your country, very good. No other country has done as much as we have, but you know what, I don’t see much reciprocity here. I hear what you want. I have a favor I want from you, though.”
The transcript quotes Mr. Trump as saying that “the United States has been very very good to Ukraine,” adding, that “I wouldn’t say that it’s reciprocal necessarily,” that the United States had done “much more than the European countries” and that “I would like you to do us a favor.”
And in criticizing Mr. Schiff for an erroneous re-enactment of the call, Mr. Trump in turn assumed Mr. Schiff’s voice and attributed remarks to the California lawmaker that he did not make. Mr. Schiff never said Mr. Trump did nothing wrong, but rather described Mr. Trump’s conduct as a “classic organized crime shakedown” and “a real betrayal” of national security.
Mr. Trump was referring to a New York Times report about how Mr. Schiff learned about the whistle-blower’s concerns days before the complaint was filed. The Times did not report that Mr. Schiff “helped write it.” A spokesman for Mr. Schiff said he had seen no part of the complaint before it was filed.
The whistle-blower did, in fact, have firsthand information, according to a statement from the Office of the Inspector General of the intelligence agencies.
“The whistle-blower stated on the form that he or she possessed both firsthand and other information,” the office said on Monday. It also noted that the inspector general “did not find that the complainant could ‘provide nothing more than secondhand or unsubstantiated assertions.’”
In the complaint, the whistle-blower also wrote that “I was not a direct witness to most of the events described” — suggesting he or she did witness at least one of the events described.
And contrary to Mr. Trump’s claim, the whistle-blower’s account of the conversation between Mr. Trump and Mr. Zelensky is quite accurate, based on the reconstructed transcript released by the White House. 
The complaint reports that White House officials said Mr. Trump pressured Mr. Zelensky to investigate former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son Hunter Biden; to assist in “uncovering that allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election originated in Ukraine”; and to meet with Attorney General William P. Barr and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer.
All of this is supported by the transcript. 
“Perfect” is how Mr. Trump himself has repeatedly described his phone call with Mr. Zelensky, but The Times was unable to find any instance of Senator Scott, Republican of Florida, using the same word. 
“We’ve all seen it. We saw the transcript, we saw what the whistle-blower put out. I don’t see what they’re talking about,” Mr. Scott said Wednesday on Fox News. “I still don’t see what the crime is. I keep saying show me what the crime is. And no one ever says that. They say, ‘Well he shouldn’t have done it.’ All of us would do things differently than other people would do it. If we impeach somebody, there ought to be something they did wrong.” 
In a Sept. 25 appearance on Fox News, Mr. Scott was asked whether he was bothered by Mr. Trump asking Mr. Zelensky to insert Ukraine into another presidential election.
“Does everybody, including President Trump, do they ask questions that I don’t ask? Do they — do they focus on things that I don’t focus on?” Mr. Scott responded. “But that’s not the issue here. The issue is, is this an impeachable offense? And should we go back and do the work that American citizens sent us to D.C. to do, pass a budget, deal with prescription drug prices?” 
Mr. Trump also repeated several claims that The Times had previously fact-checked: lamenting that the United States is the only country that gives “big money to Ukraine” (other countries contribute billions of dollars in assistance), accusing Democratic senators of threatening Ukraine in a letter (there was no overt threat), claiming credit for the Veterans Choice program (which was created in 2014), asserting that the United States “never had wins with other presidents” from the World Trade Organization (it has won 85.7 percent of cases it initiated since 1995), and exaggerating the cost of the Mueller investigation as $42 million (it was $32 million). 
A placid face and a willingness to expect the unexpected has become the price of admission for any foreign ally who hopes for a productive audience with President Trump.
WASHINGTON — An awkward handshake is really the least of their worries. 
As President Trump continues to rage against impeachment — and the Democrats and whistle-blower he holds responsible for bringing it about — visiting world leaders are encountering a different kind of diplomatic mission.
It includes a welcome ceremony, a meeting with Mr. Trump and an invitation to sit stone-faced for an indeterminate amount of time on live television as the president accuses people of treason, lies and corruption. And sometimes the session is reprised a little later in a formal news conference.
That was what happened on Wednesday when President Sauli Niinisto of Finland became the latest foreign leader to strike a straight-lipped contrast to Mr. Trump as Mr. Trump defended himself and attacked his adversaries. Not once but twice.
As reporters crowded into the Oval Office, Mr. Trump sat beside his guest and accused Democratic lawmakers, including Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, of treason. Mr. Trump also suggested that the congressman was not fit to carry the secretary of state’s “‘blank’ strap,” as Mr. Niinisto looked on. 
“He should resign from office in disgrace,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Schiff, “and frankly they should look at him for treason.”
Adding to the awkward scene, a Finnish reporter seemed to pick up on the president’s anger, and asked Mr. Trump what he could learn from Finland, which has been rated the happiest country in the world. 
“Finland is a happy country,” Mr. Trump said in response as he slapped Mr. Niinisto’s knee. “Finland is a happy country. He’s a happy leader, too.”
Mr. Niinisto nodded and seemingly moved to swat Mr. Trump’s hand away. 
But the American president wasn’t done. And at a news conference later Wednesday, Mr. Niinisto was all but forced to again express some stolid Nordic enthusiasm. 
“Mr. President, you have here a great democracy,” Mr. Niinisto told Mr. Trump in the East Room. “Keep it going on.”
Skipping the usual protocol with a visiting foreign leader is nothing new for Mr. Trump. 
He has launched into meandering asides, including falsely claiming his father was born in Germany as Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary general, looked on in April. In 2017, he seemed to forget to shake hands with Angela Merkel, the German chancellor.
And, in front of Muhammadu Buhari, the president of Nigeria, Mr. Trump took questions concerning reports that he had called several African nations “shithole countries.” 
“We didn’t discuss it because the president knows me,” Mr. Trump told reporters during his news conference with Mr. Buhari in April 2018, “and he knows where I’m coming from, and I appreciate that.”
Faced with the same question, the Nigerian president demurred, saying “the best thing for me is to keep quiet.”
Since the beginning of Mr. Trump’s presidency, at least some world leaders and their aides have made it a point to anticipate unexpected moments like these and plan ahead, according to a former official in the Washington diplomatic community who spoke on the condition of anonymity to not describe private planning. 
The president’s approach has bent the norms of a protocol system put in place by Mr. Trump’s modern predecessors, according to Peter Selfridge, who served as the United States chief of protocol during the Obama administration. 
“Obviously,” Mr. Selfridge said, “this president uses the press conference a little differently.”
President Barack Obama would regularly give his diplomatic guests warnings that a press availability might contain off-topic questions, according to a former Obama administration official who spoke on the condition of anonymity. But Mr. Obama would also appear visibly annoyed when asked questions not related to the purpose of the visit, especially if he was abroad. 
When asked if Mr. Trump gave his visitors a similar heads-up, Stephanie Grisham, the White House press secretary, indicated that there was no need. 
“I think foreign leaders are well aware that the U.S. press corps often has no desire to cover the foreign diplomacy taking place during these visits,” Ms. Grisham wrote in an email. 
Indeed, Mr. Trump’s behavior often overshadows whatever diplomacy is taking place. White House officials told journalists before Mr. Niinisto’s visit that it would focus on economic cooperation and mutual security concerns between the two countries, which is a familiar refrain before any such visit. 
But in the past two weeks, impeachment and the allegations against Mr. Trump and his relations with Ukraine have overshadowed diplomatic concerns.
That was more than just subtext to Mr. Trump’s meeting last week in New York with Volodymyr Zelensky, the Ukrainian president. Mr. Zelensky, who in a transcript of his phone call with Mr. Trump in July adeptly flattered the president, could barely mask his discomfort when the two met with reporters afterward.
“It’s a great pleasure to me to be here,” Mr. Zelensky said, “and it’s better to be on TV than by phone, I think.” 
And two weeks ago, Scott Morrison, the prime minister of Australia, had little time to prepare when his state visit came just as the furor over the president and Ukraine began to unfold. 
After Mr. Morrison’s welcome ceremony, Mr. Trump pulled him into the Oval Office and began deriding the whistle-blower’s complaint that details him repeatedly pressing the Ukrainian president to talk with aides interested in an investigation of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Defending his behavior on the call, he turned to Mr. Morrison for support.
“I’ve had conversations with many leaders,” Mr. Trump said. “They’re always appropriate. I think Scott can tell you that.”
 
RENO, Nev. — Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. on Wednesday night delivered his most forceful response yet to President Trump’s attacks on him and his son, accusing the Trump team of waging a campaign of “lies, smears, distortions and name calling” geared at knocking him out of the presidential race.
Mr. Biden made his comments during a campaign swing through Nevada after days of internal debate among his advisers over how best to refute unsubstantiated claims by the president and his personal lawyer that Mr. Biden improperly assisted his son’s business ventures in Ukraine and China.
The counterattack, people close to Mr. Biden said, was intended to demonstrate what he had been promising supporters for the past week: that he would not let Mr. Trump “hijack” his campaign by allowing the president’s narrative to take root. It was also intended to prove, in a walk-and-chew-gum kind of way, that he could multitask even when facing withering political fire — unveiling a serious policy proposal on guns early Wednesday in Las Vegas, then pivoting to a sharp political attack by nightfall in the north.
In the speech, the former vice president said the attacks on his family were intended to divert attention from the widening impeachment inquiry into Mr. Trump’s attempts to pressure Ukraine to investigate the Bidens — and he cited them as proof that the White House feared him more than any other Democratic presidential contender.
“Let me make something clear to Trump and his hatchet men and the special interests funding his attacks against me: I’m not going anywhere,” Mr. Biden told a crowd of about 500 at the Truckee Meadows Community College here.
“You’re not going to destroy me,” he said to cheers from supporters, a handful wearing “Impeach 45” jerseys. “And you’re not going to destroy my family. I don’t care how much money you spend or how dirty the attacks get.”
The American people, Mr. Biden said, “know me and they know him. The idea of Donald Trump attacking anyone’s credibility is a joke.”
Earlier in the day, speaking at a gun safety forum in Las Vegas, Mr. Biden blasted the president and his personal lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, who had communicated with Ukrainian officials on Mr. Trump’s behalf.
He said there was “zero, zero, zero” evidence that his family had done anything wrong.
Mr. Biden’s increasingly bitter fight with Mr. Trump comes at a potential tipping point in the 2020 Democratic presidential race. Until recently, Mr. Biden had been leading in most national polls since he entered the field last spring. But Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, fueled by a highly disciplined campaign, has surged in many early-voting states.
A Monmouth University national poll released Wednesday showed Mr. Biden locked in a statistical dead heat with Ms. Warren, who garnered 28 percent support from Democratic and Democratic-leaning voters to his 25 percent, a difference within the survey’s margin of error.
At Wednesday night’s rally, Mr. Biden took a swipe at some of his Democratic opponents who had accused him of focusing too much on Mr. Trump and not enough on issues facing voters. 
“A lot of my opponents say we have to do more than just beat Donald Trump,” he said. “I agree. We have to do more than beat Donald Trump. We have to beat him like a drum.” 
Mr. Biden’s team has been alarmed by reports that Mr. Trump’s supporters plan to launch an aggressive advertising campaign to portray the former vice president as the person who had acted improperly — despite the lack of any evidence to support that claim.
And Mr. Biden’s top advisers have been equally incensed by what they view as the news media’s willingness to air unsupported allegations by Mr. Trump and Mr. Giuliani.
The president and his lawyer have alleged that Mr. Biden, as vice president, pressured the Ukrainians to force out a top prosecutor in order to derail an inquiry into a Ukrainian company that had paid his son, Hunter Biden. But Mr. Biden said Wednesday that he had been enforcing the demands of the Obama administration and other Western nations by seeking to replace the prosecutor with an official more committed to fighting corruption.
On Sunday, Anita Dunn and Kate Bedingfield, two senior Biden strategists, wrote to several major television networks asking them to stop booking Mr. Giuliani on their news programs, accusing him of spreading “debunked conspiracy theories.”
Mr. Biden amplified that argument on Wednesday, urging reporters to regard Mr. Trump’s statements, and his tweets, as not simply fodder for controversy but as a dangerous “abuse of power” that included enlisting foreign leaders as allies in his re-election effort.
Mr. Trump, he said, is “afraid of just how badly I would beat him next November.”
The president, in his own remarks on Wednesday, did not agree.
“I’d rather run against Biden than almost any of those candidates,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House.
Congress has formally initiated an impeachment inquiry against the president. Do you think it is justified?
Note: Teachers might pair this with our recent Lesson of the Day, which can help students understand the impeachment process. For more context and information, students can watch the three-minute video above, take a look at this timeline, or scan Trump Impeachment Inquiry: Live Updates. 
On Sept. 24, Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced that the House of Representatives would open a formal impeachment inquiry in response to the dispute over President Trump’s efforts to pressure Ukraine to investigate his potential 2020 rival, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
The impeachment inquiry was prompted by a whistle-blower complaint filed last month that says that White House officials believed they had witnessed Mr. Trump abuse his power for political gain.
Have you read, seen or heard anything about the impeachment inquiry? Have you talked about it at school, or with your friends or family? If so, what are the people you know saying? 
What are your own reactions? Do you understand why this story is dominating the news? 
To think about your reactions and opinions, read some different points of view from the Times opinion pages. 
The New York Times Editorial Board, a group of opinion journalists separate from the newsroom, writes that “The Trump Impeachment Inquiry Is the Only Option.” Here is how their argument begins:
But an Op-Ed arguing against the impeachment inquiry, by John Yoo, says that “we must avoid doing long-term harm to the president’s ability to conduct foreign policy and protect our nation.” He writes: 
He continues that “the founders believed that impeachment should come only as a last resort,” and ends his piece this way:
And in an Op-Ed headlined “Impeachment Is an Act of Desperation,” Christopher Buskirk writes:
Students, read the articles above in full — or take a look at the full interactive opinion feature from which some of them are drawn — then tell us:
Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device:
 Apple Podcasts | Spotify | Google Play | RadioPublic | Stitcher
As evidence mounts that Donald Trump abused the power of the presidency, could members of his own party start to turn against him? This week on “The Argument,” the columnists debate Republicans’ response to the impeachment inquiry, Trump’s proliferating scandals and Attorney General William Barr’s efforts to undermine the Mueller report findings. 
A few vulnerable Republican politicians might break from Trump, argues Michelle Goldberg, but cynicism, fear and shamelessness will probably keep the others in line. Ross Douthat thinks Trump-critical Republicans would prefer he lose in 2020 rather than incur his ire for backing impeachment. And David Leonhardt thinks the convoluted nature of the Trump-Russia story — compared with the relatively straightforward case of Trump pressuring Ukraine’s president to investigate Joe Biden — is cause for a quick and focused impeachment push by congressional Democrats.
Then, the columnists tackle another divisive issue that has Americans at one another’s throats (or at least one another’s armrests): airplane etiquette. And finally, Ross recommends two powerful performances from Netflix’s dark new true-crime series.
Background Reading:
I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist since 2009, and I write about politics, religion, pop culture, sociology and the places where they all intersect. I’m a Catholic and a conservative, in that order, which means that I’m against abortion and critical of the sexual revolution, but I tend to agree with liberals that the Republican Party is too friendly to the rich. I was against Donald Trump in 2016 for reasons specific to Donald Trump, but in general I think the populist movements in Europe and America have legitimate grievances and I often prefer the populists to the “reasonable” elites. I’ve written books about Harvard, the G.O.P., American Christianity and Pope Francis; I’m working on one about decadence. Benedict XVI was my favorite pope. I review movies for National Review and have strong opinions about many prestige television shows. I have three small children, two girls and a boy, and I live in New Haven with my wife.
I’ve been an Op-Ed columnist at The New York Times since 2017, writing mainly about politics, ideology and gender. These days people on the right and the left both use “liberal” as an epithet, but that’s basically what I am, though the nightmare of Donald Trump’s presidency has radicalized me and pushed me leftward. I’ve written three books, including one, in 2006, about the danger of right-wing populism in its religious fundamentalist guise. (My other two were about the global battle over reproductive rights and, in a brief detour from politics, about an adventurous Russian émigré who helped bring yoga to the West.) I love to travel; a long time ago, after my husband and I eloped, we spent a year backpacking through Asia. Now we live in Brooklyn with our son and daughter.
I’ve worked at The Times since 1999 and have been an Op-Ed columnist since 2016. I caught the journalism bug a very long time ago — first as a little kid in the late 1970s who loved reading the Boston Globe sports section and later as a teenager working on my high school and college newspapers. I discovered that when my classmates and I put a complaint in print, for everyone to see, school administrators actually paid attention. I’ve since worked as a metro reporter at The Washington Post and a writer at Businessweek magazine. At The Times, I started as a reporter in the business section and have also been a Times Magazine staff writer, the Washington bureau chief and the founding editor of The Upshot.
My politics are left of center. But I’m also to the right of many Times readers. I think education reform has accomplished a lot. I think two-parent families are good for society. I think progressives should be realistic about the cultural conservatism that dominates much of this country. Most of all, however, I worry deeply about today’s Republican Party, which has become dangerously extreme. This country faces some huge challenges — inequality, climate change, the rise of China — and they’ll be very hard to solve without having both parties committed to the basic functioning of American democracy.
Tune in on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify, Stitcher or wherever you listen to podcasts. Tell us what you think at argument@nytimes.com. Follow Michelle Goldberg (@michelleinbklyn), Ross Douthat (@DouthatNYT) and David Leonhardt (@DLeonhardt) on Twitter. 
This week’s show is produced by Kristin Schwab for Transmitter Media and edited by Sara Nics. Our executive producer is Gretta Cohn. We had help from Tyson Evans, Phoebe Lett, Ian Prasad Philbrick and Francis Ying. Our theme is composed by Allison Leyton-Brown.
All presidents over the past two decades have nudged science to support their policies, but a report out of N.Y.U. said the Trump administration has driven federal science to a “crisis point.”
WASHINGTON — In a single month in 2017, the Trump administration’s Environmental Protection Agency blocked scientists from speaking at a climate change conference, its Interior Department forwarded a policy letter to U.S. Customs and Border Protection only after deleting concerns from biologists about a border wall’s effects on wildlife, and the F.B.I. issued a crime report that omitted dozens of tables of data on homicides and arrests.
That October was fairly typical for the Trump administration, according to a new report out of New York University, led by Preet Bharara, a former United States attorney, and Christine Todd Whitman, who led the E.P.A. for George W. Bush. 
Every president over the past two decades has, to some degree, undermined research and injected politics into science, the report said. But, it concluded, “Now, we are at a crisis point, with almost weekly violations of previously respected safeguards.” The report calls for stringent new standards to enshrine scientific independence.
The study, to be formally released on Thursday, follows reports that President Trump’s acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, pressured the commerce secretary to rebuke weather forecasters who appeared to contradict the president after he erroneously claimed a recent hurricane could affect Alabama. Earlier this summer a State Department intelligence analyst resigned in protest after the White House tried to edit scientific testimony about climate change and then blocked it from being entered into the permanent Congressional Record. For months the White House debated a plan to publicly question the established scientific conclusions about the severity of climate change.
“While the threat to the independence of scientific data did not start with this administration, it has certainly accelerated of late,” said Ms. Whitman, a Republican who also served as New Jersey’s governor, in an emailed statement.
A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on the report’s findings.
The report is the second in a series of studies issued by a democracy task force that was launched last year at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University’s School of Law. Both Mr. Bharara and Ms. Whitman have been critical of Mr. Trump, but they emphasized that stronger laws against financial conflicts, political interference with law enforcement and the suppression of science were needed to curtail the impulses of any president from either party.
Under President George Bush, the report noted, the White House altered the scientific testimony of James E. Hansen, a NASA scientist, to make his conclusions about climate change appear less certain. The E.P.A. under President Barack Obama made last-minute changes to a report to downplay the risks of an oil and gas extraction technique known as fracking on the nation’s water supply. In another instance the Obama administration issued a memo discouraging members of E.P.A.’s scientific advisory boards from speaking publicly without agency approval.
But the report reserved special condemnation for the actions of the Trump administration, which has disbanded independent scientific review boards, altered reports that contradict the administration’s political views and relocated researchers whose conclusions were politically uncomfortable. For instance, the Agriculture Department decided in May to move some of its economists out of Washington after they presented research indicating that the agricultural benefits of Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut would flow largely to the nation’s richest farmers.
On October 13, 2017, the Interior Department sent a supportive letter to border patrol officials considering Mr. Trump’s proposed wall along the southwestern frontier, but deleted concerns by scientists about the harm that a physical structure could cause the habitats of rare cats and other wildlife in the area, according to the report. A few days later the E.P.A. barred three agency scientists from speaking at a conference in Rhode Island about the effects of climate change on the Narragansett Bay. A week after that the F.B.I. issued its annual report of crime data with 70 percent fewer data tables. The changes, according to a report at the time, did not go through the normal review process. 
“Policies governing the health and welfare of the public and of our shared environment have to be based in credible, independent science,” Ms. Whitman said in emailed remarks. “For the public to lose faith in that process will call into question everything that has been done to make our drugs and food safe and our environment healthier.”
The authors maintain that, without action from Congress, future administrations of either party could further erode the independence of federal scientific data. Among the changes it recommended was legislation to require that all federal agencies that perform scientific research articulate clear standards for, and report on, how political officials interact with career scientists.
While that seems like a long shot in the current Congress, where even the definition of scientific integrity is in dispute, the authors said they are optimistic that rules governing scientific advisory bodies could earn bipartisan support. Legislation by Representative Paul Tonko, Democrat of New York, to develop scientific integrity standards has 217 co-sponsors, but none are Republican. 
“There’s truth and there’s science, and that shouldn’t be swayed by whether someone is a liberal or a conservative, a Democrat or a Republican,” Mr. Bharara said in an interview.
And the winner is … Vladimir Putin.
For some Europeans, the most embarrassing revelation of the now very public phone conversation between Donald Trump and Ukraine’s president on July 25 was not the attempt by Mr. Trump to interfere in the judiciary system of a foreign country for his own political benefit. Nothing the American president does could surprise any longer.
What they found particularly disappointing, instead, was the servility with which his young counterpart, Volodymyr Zelensky, sought to ingratiate himself with Mr. Trump, pretending that he had won the Ukrainian presidency by imitating him, claiming to have appointed a new prosecutor general who would be “100 percent my person,” and happily joining in the Euro-bashing that has become one of Mr. Trump’s trademarks. 
Masks were falling off. So this popular maverick comedian turned real-life politician after playing one in a TV series, this promising reformer that President Emmanuel Macron of France had hosted at the Élysée even before he was elected, was in fact another spineless, unprepared leader jumping into President Trump’s every trap.
Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and President Macron have been wise enough not to comment on this pathetic turn of events. Privately, French diplomats insist that Paris still actively supports Mr. Zelensky — even more so in light of the American meltdown. What is at stake in Ukraine for the European Union is far too important, and the risk of seeing Mr. Trump’s dirty work derail laborious efforts to reform that post-Soviet country far too real. 
The issue is bigger than Mr. Zelensky. After a popular uprising in 2014 forced a corrupt predecessor of Mr. Zelensky to flee to Russia, Ukraine and its 44 million citizens became the new frontier of democratic Europe. To prevent that from succeeding, President Vladimir Putin’s Russia annexed Crimea and intervened in the Donbas region, across its border.
Contrary to Mr. Trump’s claims, the European Union has been very active in Ukraine — and far more generous than the United States — in supporting reforms in its governance, economy and civil society. Since 2014, European institutions have mobilized more than 15 billion euros in grants and loans, on top of bilateral assistance from member states.
 Brussels has signed an association agreement with Kiev that includes the most wide-ranging free trade agreement ever concluded by the union: If Ukraine manages to bring its legal norms and regulations in line, it could end up fully integrating its economy into the European single market. Thanks to a new visa-free system, set up in 2017, millions of Ukrainians have been able to travel and work in Europe, mostly in neighboring Poland, and send remittances back home. The European Union Advisory Mission maintains 300 people in Ukraine to help transform the Ukrainian civilian security sector.
But in the field of military aid, the United States is Ukraine’s main partner. That is why withholding $391 million of such aid, as the Trump administration did this summer, can so effectively put pressure on Kiev. In the five-year-old war with Russia over Donbas, which has claimed 13,000 lives, American support has been crucial. Defense experts point out that when the Pentagon sent Javelin anti-tank missiles to Ukraine two years ago, Russian tanks pulled back.
So when a new, untested 41-year-old president of Ukraine gets ready to take on Mr. Putin, the ruler for two decades of the big power next door, the last thing he needs is his main military aid provider withdrawing its backing.
Indeed, the Trump mess could not come at a worse time for President Zelensky. Four months into his term, a big question mark still hangs over the direction this fast-learning political novice will choose for his country. “He is from another planet,” reckoned a European diplomat who has watched him closely. 
Mr. Zelensky campaigned on a promise to bring peace, unify the country and fight corruption, and won by a landslide. Voters were desperate for change, which he embodied, but his political program was so vague that analysts were left guessing. The kind of president Mr. Zelensky would be, they concluded, would be determined by who in his entourage ended up having the upper hand. 
The young, earnest reformers who have joined his government, supported by new members of Parliament? His childhood friends and former associates of his TV production company? Or the immovable oligarchs, and one billionaire in particular — Ihor Kolomoisky, whose PrivatBank was nationalized three years ago after financial regulators found that $5.5 billion was missing from its accounts?
Who wins this competition is of interest not just to Ukrainian voters. Ukraine’s European partners and the International Monetary Fund, which has set up a major credit line to help the country rebuild its economy, are also watching closely. An I.M.F. delegation visited Kiev in September but left without an agreement on a new cooperation program; its members seemed both impressed by the reformers’ ambition and wary of Mr. Kolomoisky’s ostentatious presence. 
The oligarch returned from self-imposed exile as soon as Mr. Zelensky, his protégé, took office in May. He is now talking to the government about $2 billion in “compensation” for the loss of PrivatBank. For foreign experts, whether the government gives in will be a test of President Zelensky’s political strength.
In France, President Macron, having bet on Mr. Zelensky as a potential game-changer and eager to reopen a wider dialogue with Moscow, has been encouraging Ukraine to try to give new impetus to stalled peace talks with Russia on Donbas. President Zelensky and President Putin have talked on the phone, which led to a much-awaited exchange of prisoners in early September and, lately, into some positive steps in the negotiation over the future status of Donbas. 
Enter Donald Trump, Rudy Giuliani, a whistle-blower and Nancy Pelosi. Very much an American story — except that Ukraine is unwillingly dragged into the mud. While Washington wallows in the impeachment procedure, the consequences could be devastating for its relationship with Kiev. The resignation of Kurt Volker, the State Department special envoy for Ukraine, whom Ukrainians considered their most solid defender in negotiations with Russia, is seen as a big loss, especially coming after Washington’s recall of Marie Yovanovitch as the American ambassador in May.
 President Zelensky, his image now tarnished, is left to mend fences with his European allies. President Macron will have to adjust to this new situation. Last but not least, as the anti-corruption activist Daria Kaleniuk recently lamented on the Ukrainian television channel Hromadske, “The U.S. push for good governance in Ukraine is seriously undermined. What America was selling to the world used to be the rule of law.”
And the winner is … Vladimir Putin. President Jimmy Carter’s former national security adviser Zbigniew Brzezinski in his 1997 book, “The Grand Chessboard,” described newly independent Ukraine as “a geopolitical pivot, because its very existence as an independent country helps to transform Russia.” He added: “Without Ukraine, Russia ceases to be a Eurasian empire. However, if Moscow regains control over Ukraine, Russia automatically again regains the wherewithal to become a powerful imperial state.”
The stakes are still that high. Whether President Trump is aware of it is anybody’s guess. 
ORLANDO, Fla. — President Trump on Thursday delivered a campaign-style speech to an audience of elderly voters, pitching a new executive order that aims to improve private Medicare plans as the responsible alternative to the “Medicare for all” policies supported by some of his Democratic political opponents.
“Standing in solidarity with our nation’s seniors, I declare once again that America will never be a socialist country,” Mr. Trump told a crowd at the Villages in Florida, the country’s largest retirement community, where the population is overwhelmingly white and conservative and where many residents are veterans.
“Democrat health care proposals would put everyone into a single socialist government program” and end private insurance for all Americans, Mr. Trump told the supportive crowd.
While the Medicare for All Act proposed by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont would indeed cover all Americans under a single national health insurance program, most of the other Democratic presidential candidates want to give people the option of buying into Medicare, or a similar “public option,” but do not require it.
[Medicare for All? For More? Here’s How Medicare Works.]
That did not stop Mr. Trump from pitching himself in a critical swing state as the bulwark against a raid on health care benefits that members of his audience rely on. “As long as I’m president, no one will lay a hand on your Medicare benefits,” Mr. Trump said, adding that “I will never allow these politicians to steal your health care and give it away to illegal immigrants.”
Nearly all the Democratic candidates have said they support granting government health coverage to undocumented immigrants. At a debate in June, the idea received a unanimous show of hands in support.
But while Mr. Trump’s speech suggested that the Democratic proposals for expanding coverage put retirees’ access to health care in grave danger, the plans would not actually diminish their benefits. The Sanders plan, for example, would eliminate Medicare but provide more benefits for all Americans, including the elderly, than the program currently offers. It would have lower out-of-pocket costs compared with Medicare, though it would increase taxes.
Mr. Trump’s speech, delivered from behind a lectern with a presidential seal, was billed as an official White House event and his travel was not paid for by his campaign. But it was almost indistinguishable in much of its content from the remarks Mr. Trump delivers at his “Make America Great Again” rallies.
Mr. Trump called the Democratic presidential field a bunch of “maniacs” and noted that Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, whom he referred to by the pejorative nickname Pocahontas, “came up from the ashes.” He noted that he would have to knock her out of the running again “because I don’t see sleepy Joe Biden making it.”
Mr. Trump said his victory in the 2020 election was critical to preventing the country from being hijacked by the “radical left,” which he said was “consumed by rage and radicalism and insatiable lust.” And he said that House Democrats had begun impeachment proceedings because “they know they can’t beat us fairly.”
Mr. Trump’s advisers earlier in the day previewed the new executive order as part of Mr. Trump’s commitment to protecting Medicare. Seniors “like what they have, so the president is going to protect it,” Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, said in a conference call with reporters. Mr. Azar also used the call to frame Democrats’ health care plan as too focused on reducing the ranks of the uninsured.
The executive order seeks to beef up Medicare Advantage, the plans offered by private insurers that contract with Medicare and currently cover about a third of the program’s 60 million beneficiaries, according to senior administration officials. The order also calls for lowering Medicare Advantage’s premiums, allowing providers to spend more time with patients and reducing Medicare fraud.
The executive order, originally called “Protecting Medicare From Socialist Destruction,” was renamed “Protecting and Improving Medicare for Our Nation’s Seniors” before Mr. Trump’s speech. But administration officials said the renaming was a distinction without a difference.
Joe Grogan, the director of the White House Domestic Policy Council, said the goal was still to contrast the administration’s commitment to protecting seniors with “the vision for Medicare as a one-size-fits-all, single-payer system” supported by many Democratic candidates.
“Medicare for all is Medicare for none,” added Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, who has been a vocal critic not just of the Democratic proposals but also of the Affordable Care Act. “Proposals like Medicare for all, as well as the public option, they are morally wrong because they would demote American seniors to second-class status.”
Democrats competing for their party’s presidential nomination strongly disagree: All advocate expanding health care coverage, though their strategies to do so vary.
Mr. Trump’s appearance in a Republican-leaning region of Florida reflects the judgment of advisers who see health care, in recent years a Democratic issue, as a better focus for the president than the impeachment proceedings underway on Capitol Hill. And they see it as a way of tying all the Democratic candidates to the most progressive wing of the party and branding them as socialists.
Since his attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act ended in failure, Mr. Trump has repeatedly promised to unveil a new health care plan. Instead he has issued a series of executive orders and proposed rules to counter Democratic health care proposals for expanding coverage.
In July, for instance, the administration said it was taking steps to make it easier to import some drugs from Canada and to force hospitals to disclose the discounted prices they negotiate with insurers.
Administration officials on Thursday morning underscored what has become a frequent talking point for Mr. Trump: that the price of prescription drugs fell in 2018 for the first time in decades.
But that claim is misleading. While the Consumer Price Index for prescription drugs declined in 2018, many experts say that is too narrow a measurement and that prices for many drugs, especially brand-name ones, have continued to rise.
Mr. Trump appeared at ease in front of a supportive audience.
“I should be retiring with you,” Mr. Trump said. “I should be in this audience, clapping. But I didn’t trust anybody to be standing here, because I know what you have.”
President Trump made a similar, but private, request of the president of Ukraine, an episode that has prompted an impeachment inquiry.
WASHINGTON — President Trump, already facing impeachment for pressuring Ukraine to investigate his political rivals, publicly called on China on Thursday to examine former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as well, an extraordinary request for help from a foreign power that could benefit him in next year’s election.
“China should start an investigation into the Bidens, because what happened in China is just about as bad as what happened with Ukraine,” Mr. Trump told reporters as he left the White House to travel to Florida. His request came just moments after he discussed upcoming trade talks with China and said that “if they don’t do what we want, we have tremendous power.”
The president’s call for Chinese intervention means that Mr. Trump and his attorney general have now solicited assistance in discrediting the president’s political opponents from Ukraine, Australia, Italy and, according to one report, Britain. In speaking so publicly on Thursday, a defiant Mr. Trump pushed back against critics who have called such requests an abuse of power, essentially arguing that there was nothing wrong with seeking foreign help to fight corruption.
Throughout his presidency, Mr. Trump has made little effort to hide actions or statements that critics called outrageous violations of norms and standards. And yet because he does them in public, they seem to stir less blowback than if they had been done behind closed doors. Among other things, he repeatedly called on his own Justice Department to investigate his Democratic foes and eventually fired his first attorney general for not protecting him from the Russia investigation.
By boldly repeating the action at the heart of the impeachment inquiry, Mr. Trump almost appeared to dare House Democrats to impeach him. But he left his own party in an increasingly uncomfortable position. Republican lawmakers largely stayed silent on Thursday, neither criticizing the president’s latest comments nor defending them as they nervously awaited other developments that they worried could change the complexion of the case.
Mr. Trump’s comments on China came as the first witness was interviewed by House investigators as part of the impeachment inquiry into the president’s request for investigations into Mr. Biden, a leading contender for the Democratic presidential nomination, and other Democrats during a July 25 phone call with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine at the same time Mr. Trump was withholding $391 million in American aid. 
During a daylong, closed interview, Kurt D. Volker, who resigned last week as the Trump administration’s special envoy to Ukraine, told House staff members about his interactions with the Ukrainians and Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president’s personal lawyer, who has been vigorously lobbying for Ukrainian investigations into Democrats.
Mr. Trump’s comments on Thursday set off a wave of criticism from Democrats, who said he brazenly implicated himself.
“What Donald Trump just said on the South Lawn of the White House was this election’s equivalent of his infamous ‘Russia, if you’re listening’ moment from 2016 — a grotesque choice of lies over truth and self over the country,” Kate Bedingfield, Mr. Biden’s deputy campaign manager, said in a statement.
Ms. Bedingfield was referring to a news conference during the 2016 campaign when Mr. Trump on camera called on Russia to hack Hillary Clinton’s email servers. “Russia, if you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” he said. The investigation by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III later determined that just hours later Russian hackers made their first effort to break into servers used by Mrs. Clinton’s personal office. 
Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the House Intelligence Committee chairman leading the impeachment inquiry, said the president’s latest comments were further evidence of his betrayal of duty.
“The president of the United States encouraging a foreign nation to interfere and help his campaign by investigating a rival is a fundamental breach of the president’s oath of office,” he told reporters. 
Mrs. Clinton weighed in as well. “Someone should inform the president that impeachable offenses committed on national television still count,” she wrote on Twitter.
Whether it is impeachable will be decided by the House, which will determine if it amounts to “high crimes and misdemeanors,” as outlined in the Constitution. Such a conclusion does not require a criminal offense, but some critics have argued that the president’s requests for investigations of rivals violate campaign finance laws barring solicitation of foreign contributions.
The Justice Department has not interpreted it that way. In fact, Attorney General William P. Barr himself has been in touch with foreign officials seeking help for an investigation into the origin of Mr. Mueller’s inquiry to determine if it was generated by an illegitimate “hoax” undertaken for partisan reasons, as Mr. Trump has contended.
But the chairwoman of the Federal Election Commission on Thursday seemed to suggest that Mr. Trump’s statements might cross a legal line. Ellen L. Weintraub, a Democrat who has served on the commission since 2002, reposted a statement she made in June warning candidates that “it is illegal for any person to solicit, accept or receive anything of value from a foreign national in connection with a U.S. election.”
Sally Yates, an Obama administration holdover who served as acting attorney general until she was fired by Mr. Trump, said the president behaved as if acting in the light of day would transform corrupt actions into innocent ones. “The president is trying to hypnotize the American people into believing that it can’t be wrong if he says it out loud,” she said.
“The White House counsel in a case like this would find the nearest window and jump out,” said Robert F. Bauer, who served as President Barack Obama’s top lawyer and supports Mr. Biden. “There’s no way to defend it. No way. None.”
Republicans did not even try on Thursday, and some disaffected colleagues said they should speak out against the president. “He’s asking foreign governments to interfere in our election,” former Representative Joe Walsh of Illinois, who is waging a long-shot battle for the Republican nomination, wrote on Twitter. “Right out in the open. Because he thinks he can get away with it. He’s unfit. He’s dangerous.”
Left to defend himself, Mr. Trump weighed back in Thursday night, asserting he was allowed to seek foreign help. “As the President of the United States, I have an absolute right, perhaps even a duty, to investigate, or have investigated, CORRUPTION, and that would include asking, or suggesting, other Countries to help us out!” he wrote on Twitter.
Mr. Trump has insisted that his July conversation with Mr. Zelensky was “perfect” even after a reconstructed transcript of the call released by the White House showed him imploring the newly inaugurated Ukrainian leader to “do us a favor” by investigating the Bidens and other Democrats shortly after Mr. Zelensky discussed his need for more American aid to counter Russian aggression. 
Undaunted by criticism, Mr. Trump repeated that request on Thursday morning. “I would say that President Zelensky, if it were me, I would recommend that they start an investigation into the Bidens,” Mr. Trump said. “Because nobody has any doubt that they weren’t crooked.” 
Even as he seeks investigations by Ukraine and China, the president and Mr. Barr have also solicited help from Australia and Italy to uncover information undermining the origin of Mr. Mueller’s investigation. The Times of London has reported that Mr. Trump sought help from Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain, a report that has not been denied by either the White House or the British government.
In Ukraine, Mr. Biden’s son Hunter made $50,000 a month on the board of an energy company. As vice president, his father pressured Ukraine to fire a prosecutor whose office oversaw investigations into the company’s owner. But by the time the elder Mr. Biden acted, there was no public evidence that the prosecutor was actively pursuing an investigation, and no evidence has emerged that the vice president, who was carrying out Obama administration policy, was motivated by his son’s business interests.
In calling for an investigation of American citizens by China, a repressive Communist government with no rule of law, Mr. Trump referred to a business deal Hunter Biden was in that involved a fund drawing investment from the government-owned Bank of China. The fund was announced in late 2013, days after Hunter Biden flew to China aboard Air Force Two with the vice president, who was in the midst of a diplomatic mission. 
The president said on Thursday that Hunter Biden was not qualified for that business, noting that he had been discharged from the Navy Reserve after testing positive for cocaine. “He got kicked out of the Navy,” Mr. Trump said. “All of a sudden he’s getting billions of dollars. You know what they call that? They call that a payoff.”
Mr. Trump said he had not asked President Xi Jinping for assistance. “But it’s certainly something we can start thinking about because I’m sure that President Xi does not like being under that kind of scrutiny.” 
Mr. Trump’s suggestion came as senior Chinese officials were set to come to Washington next week for another round of trade negotiations. The two countries, locked in a trade war, are hoping to make progress toward a deal after a breakdown in talks in May, leading to an escalation of tariffs.
Mr. Biden is not the only candidate in the race with a child with business in China. Mr. Trump’s elder daughter, Ivanka, a senior White House adviser, has received valuable trademarks from China even after she closed her brand in 2018 because of worsening sales and questions of conflicts of interest. 
A 15-year fight over airplane subsidies is going to raise the cost of Parmesan cheese, French wine and Scotch whisky.
American shoppers may not have paid close attention to a 15-year controversy involving generous subsidies that the European Union provided Airbus, its largest aircraft manufacturer.
But that long-running dispute between Europe and the United States is about to turn up at the supermarket. The Trump administration said on Wednesday that, starting Oct. 18, it will begin imposing a 25 percent tariff on a wide range of popular European food, drinks and other products. 
Here’s what you need to know about the trade fight, and how it will affect your grocery list. 
The United States and Europe have been arguing for more than a decade about the subsidies and other kinds of special financing that the European Union has given Airbus. 
The United States argues that these subsidies allow Airbus to sell its products at unfairly low prices around the world, hurting America’s largest plane maker, Boeing. So the Americans brought a case against the Europeans at the World Trade Organization, the global body that handles trade disputes. 
On Wednesday, the W.T.O. handed down the final decision in that case, giving the Trump administration the green light to impose tariffs on up to $7.5 billion of European products annually — or until the European Union ends its subsidies. Later that day, the Trump administration released a list of the goods it will start taxing. 
Many trade experts argue that the United States is justified in imposing the tariffs. Unlike some of President Trump’s other trade moves — including tariffs on $360 billion worth of Chinese imports — these levies are permitted under global trade rules. 
But the tariffs will still weigh heavily on some American companies and households — including consumers at the grocery store, major United States airlines, liquor importers, specialty wine shops and some manufacturers. 
Some of the most beloved — and delicious — European imports are on the list, which reads like the menu for a fancy dinner party. French wine. Olives, virgin olive oil, cherries, oranges and lemons from Spain. Pork sausages and roasted coffee from Germany. Italian cheeses like pecorino, Parmesan and provolone. Stilton cheese, sweet biscuits and Scotch whiskies from Britain. 
All of these items will be subject to a new 25 percent tax at the border as of Oct. 18. 
A few other items beyond food will also face a tax, including aircraft, anoraks, wool suits, blankets, bed linen, axes, pneumatic tools for metal working and backhoes. 
Aircraft will be subject to a 10 percent tariff, while other goods will be taxed at 25 percent. Those price increases are likely to take a toll on airlines, department stores, manufacturers and other businesses that sell imported goods.
Who actually absorbs the cost of that tariff will vary from product to product. 
In some cases, European producers will be forced to foot the bill, most likely by dipping into their profits or forgoing spending on new hires and other expenses. In other cases, European companies will pass those costs on to American businesses that import and sell their products and to the Americans who buy them. 
Ultimately, it’s very likely that Americans will see some price increases at the store. And that could slow spending on European wine, liquor and other goods heading into a normally busy holiday season, industry groups say.
The 25 percent tariff could raise the retail price of French wines in the United States by up to 30 percent, said Louis-Fabrice Latour, the president of the Federation of French Wine and Spirits Exporters and head of the Burgundy wine producers’ association. 
Pouilly-Fuissé, a popular white Burgundy wine, could rise from an average of around $25 per bottle to over $30, with price increases starting to be felt mainly after Christmas, when existing stocks of French wines in the United States run down, Mr. Latour said.
“It’s not good news for American consumers who like our wine,” he said.
Hours after Mr. Trump announced the tariffs, said Mr. Latour, whose family has sold wine in America since the Civil War, a New York wine importer called to cancel a big order of Beaujolais nouveau red wine that was supposed to be shipped by boat for delivery in November.
The pain could get worse for American companies, whose products may face retaliation by the European Union down the line. 
The World Trade Organization is considering a separate trade case that the European Union has brought against the United States for subsidizing Boeing. The W.T.O. is expected to announce that decision early next year. It’s unclear how many tariffs could be imposed as a result, but European officials have already drawn up a list of $20 billion in American products, including food and agricultural goods, that it could tax in response to that case.
Chris Swonger, the president of the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, called the move “a devastating blow to the U.S. spirits industry.” He added, “Distillers on both sides of the Atlantic have become collateral damage in matters that are completely unrelated to our industry.”
Unsurprisingly, European companies and trade associations are deeply upset about being drawn into a trade conflict over aircraft subsidies. 
“It seems ironic that in a dispute about aircraft, our sector is being hit pretty hard,” said Karen Betts, the chief executive of the Scotch Whisky Association.
But the pain that European producers will feel is part of the goal. The levies are meant to put pressure on the European Union to fix trade practices that the United States argues are deeply problematic and put American manufacturers, like Boeing, at a disadvantage. 
European officials say they have tried to negotiate a solution with the United States, but the Trump administration says these offers still fall short. Under W.T.O. rules, the United States is allowed to keep the tariffs on until the two negotiate a settlement, or the W.T.O. decides that Europe has started following its rules. 
That may be why the United States has chosen to focus so much on European food products. The sector is a particularly sensitive one for the European Union. American officials say the European government may respond more quickly if farmers and agricultural producers complain that they are collateral damage in a trade fight that has nothing to do with them. 
Luis Planas, the Spanish agriculture minister, said on Thursday that if the trade conflict could not be mitigated, “the food sector, fundamental to citizens’ lives, will be hit.” 
He said he had already reached out to the European Commission to work on “a common stance” to defend the interests of Spanish and other European farm producers.

The 2020 campaign ad wars have begun.
CNN rejected a pair of provocative ads from President Trump’s re-election campaign on Thursday, saying the 30-second spots deriding the House Democrats’ impeachment inquiry — one deeming the effort “nothing short of a coup” — contained inaccuracies and unfairly attacked the network’s journalists.
It is unusual but not unprecedented for television networks to reject a political advertisement from a presidential candidate. On the eve of last year’s midterm elections, major channels, including Fox News, removed a commercial from Mr. Trump’s political team that portrayed immigrants as a violent threat.
But political ads tend to be contentious in the latter stages of a campaign — not 13 months before Election Day. And CNN’s decision could foreshadow a longer conflict between Mr. Trump’s political aides and network executives who are tasked with reviewing the accuracy of the information that reaches viewers.
The Trump ads were recently posted online as part of what the campaign said was a multimillion-dollar advertising buy on national cable stations and digital platforms. One, “Biden Corruption,” repeats unsubstantiated allegations about former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s activities in Ukraine.
“Joe Biden promised Ukraine $1 billion if they fired the prosecutor investigating his son’s company,” a narrator intones over grainy footage of Mr. Biden, a leading Democratic presidential candidate. After referring to Democrats in general, the narrator adds, “And their media lap dogs fall in line,” as clips are shown of the CNN anchors Don Lemon and Chris Cuomo and the network’s chief White House correspondent, Jim Acosta. The MSNBC host Rachel Maddow appears as well.
No evidence has surfaced that Mr. Biden intentionally tried to help his son Hunter Biden by pushing for the dismissal of the Ukrainian prosecutor general, Viktor Shokin. Members of the Obama administration, as well as other international leaders, had sought Mr. Shokin’s removal amid accusations that he ignored corruption claims. Mr. Shokin was voted out by the Ukrainian Parliament in 2016.
[Read about the issues behind the impeachment inquiry here.]
CNN said in a statement on Thursday that the commercial failed to meet its advertising standards. “In addition to disparaging CNN and its journalists, the ad makes assertions that have been proven demonstrably false by various news outlets, including CNN,” a network spokesman said.
Tim Murtaugh, the communications director for Mr. Trump’s campaign, responded that the ad was “entirely accurate and was reviewed by counsel.”
“CNN spends all day protecting Joe Biden in their programming,” Mr. Murtaugh wrote in a statement. “So it’s not surprising that they’re shielding him from truthful advertising, too.”
Later, CNN said it had also rejected another Trump ad, “Coup,” which presents the impeachment inquiry as an effort “to undo the election, regardless of facts,” and accuses House Democrats of “fabricating evidence.”
“The ad contains assertions of fact about the whistle-blower complaint that have been refuted by the Intelligence inspector general,” CNN said. “In addition, it is inaccurate to use the word ‘coup’ to describe a constitutionally prescribed legal process.”
[Read more about “coup” claims used by Mr. Trump’s supporters.]
The moves by CNN are likely to inflame longstanding tensions between the news channel and the president, who denounced the network at multiple public appearances this week. At a White House news conference on Wednesday, Mr. Trump called CNN staff members “corrupt people.”
CNN said it had agreed to carry a third commercial submitted by the Trump campaign, which focuses on the president’s accomplishments in office.
Mr. Trump has said his request for help digging into the Bidens was legitimate and part of a “perfect” phone call with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine. On Thursday, Mr. Trump publicly asked China to investigate the former vice president.
The impeachment inquiry has spurred a surge in campaign spending since it was announced on Sept. 24. Need to Impeach, a group founded and funded mainly by the billionaire Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer, said this week that it planned to spend $3.1 million on television and digital ads urging Republican senators to remove Mr. Trump.
The Trump campaign has spent more than $1.6 million to advertise on Mr. Trump’s Facebook page in the past seven days, including as much as $21,000 on the “Biden Corruption” ad, according to the platform’s ad library. Facebook does not fact-check speech from politicians, generally allowing it on the platform “even when it would otherwise break our normal content rules,” Nick Clegg, a Facebook executive and former British deputy prime minister, said in Washington last week.
But Daniel Wessel, a spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, said on Thursday that Facebook should monitor and remove all false ads, including “Biden Corruption.”
“Facebook owes that to its readers,” Mr. Wessel said. “We all have a role to play in combating these lies, and that includes Facebook.”
Mr. Biden’s team weighed in, as well. In a formal letter on Thursday, his campaign manager, Greg Schultz, urged Fox News to reject the Trump campaign’s ad, saying it contained “false, definitively debunked conspiracy theories.”
“We are putting you on notice about the absolute falsity of the advertisement’s claims,” Mr. Schultz wrote.
Fox News responded in a statement: “We are not in the business of censoring ads from candidates on either side of the aisle. Vice President Joe Biden has a standing invitation to appear on any of our platforms.”
WASHINGTON — President Trump’s political feud with California has spread collateral damage across more than a dozen other states, which have seen their regulatory authority curtailed and their autonomy threatened by a Trump administration intent on weakening the environmental statutes of the country’s most populous state. 
When the administration last month revoked California’s authority to set state-level standards on climate-warming tailpipe emissions, it simultaneously stripped that power from 13 other states that follow California’s standards and ensured that no other state could set fuel-efficiency standards in the future. The Environmental Protection Agency last week followed up with letters to California that threatened to wield rarely used provisions of environmental law to withhold federal funding from the state if it did not take specific steps to clean its air and water. 
“This is new and unusual,” said Jeffrey Holmstead, a Republican lawyer who served in the E.P.A. in both Bush administrations. “E.P.A. has in the past been reluctant to use the very potent mechanism of withholding federal funding, as long as the state is acting in good faith.” 
“But,” he added, “there’s obviously some bad blood.”
The maneuvers reversed the traditional positions of the two parties. Republicans have often claimed the mantle of protectors of states’ rights, and the prerogative of state governments as the laboratories of democracy. Democrats have often championed the pre-eminence of Washington over the states in battles over civil rights and health care. That has not always been the case. Republicans in Washington have tried to block state assisted-suicide laws, for instance, while Democrats have championed liberal state laws, for example on gun control.
The fight over California’s fuel-economy standards fits into that last category, but legal experts said the Trump administration’s actions are new. They amount to a novel weaponizing of environmental laws intended not only to undermine California’s liberal government but to send a message to other states that might defy Mr. Trump. 
“It looks like a search-and-destroy, and it sends a chilling message to other states,” said Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan. 
In this case, critics noted, the Clean Air Act specifically offered states the ability to set their own environmental standards if Washington grants them a waiver.
“This is a very powerful tool that the Clean Air Act gives to the states,” said Phil Weiser, the attorney general of Colorado. “To pull the rug out from states, to do something this prescriptive, this stepping-on-states’ rights, is a threat to the very principle of states’ rights.” 
The E.P.A. administrator, Andrew Wheeler, said this week that the administration believed in states’ rights, to a point. California’s economic power is so great that its policies have gravitational force far beyond its border: “We embrace federalism and the role of the states,” Mr. Wheeler said, “but federalism does not mean that one state can dictate standards for the nation.”
But impugning California’s commitment to clean air and water struck William K. Reilly, who headed the E.P.A. under the first President George Bush, as disingenuous, he said. The state, he said, is “historically the originator of the most innovative and successful air pollution controls” in the country.
“I’d be surprised if the E.P.A administrator could defend this letter and keep a straight face,” he said.
Mr. Wheeler did just that on Wednesday when he was asked if his letters to California were political retaliation for the state’s efforts against his policies.
“No, not at all,” he said. “We found a lot of discrepancies between the way California is operating their water programs compared to others states.”
Mr. Wheeler announced last month that the E.P.A. would revoke a waiver granted to California by the Obama administration that allowed the state to establish its own tough fuel economy standards for cars sold into its giant market. That waiver had been granted under the 1970 Clean Air Act, which allows states to set tighter emissions standards. 
Because vehicle emissions represent the nation’s largest source of planet-warming greenhouse gases, the legal authority under the Clean Air Act represents one of the most powerful tools that states can use to combat climate change. Under the law, any other state could enact standards in line with California’s, and 13 states had done so before the administration wiped them out. Two other states, Minnesota and New Mexico, had planned to join California’s standards. 
Twenty-three states have now sued the Trump administration over the move. While not all of those states followed the California standard, attorneys general for the states said they saw the move as an unlawful infringement on states’ rights that would prevent them from taking action to combat climate change in the future. 
All the state attorneys general on to the suit are Democrats, but some represent states that Mr. Trump won in 2016, or hope to win in 2020, including North Carolina, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Michigan and New Mexico.
“The Trump administration has assaulted states’ rights,” said Josh Shapiro, the attorney general of Pennsylvania, “and Exhibit A is this clean cars law, where states have taken it upon ourselves to protect our citizens and now they are unlawfully trying to strip us of our authority.”
Collateral damage aside, Mr. Trump has seen the moves as focused on California, which has filed 60 lawsuits against the Trump administration over issues ranging from immigration to health care. Even as the threat of impeachment swamps his presidency, Mr. Trump remains fixated on California. 
On Wednesday, he said, “We just sent a violation to the city of San Francisco, unsafe water, unsafe conditions.”
“With all the talk about the E.P.A.,” he continued, “there’s needles and drugs all over the street, there’s tents, there’s people that are dying in squalor in the best location in San Francisco.” 
Mr. Trump was enraged in July when four automakers that opposed his plan to roll back the Obama administration’s vehicle pollution standard had signed a deal with California to comply with its tighter emissions standards, even if the broader rollback goes through. 
If other automakers signed on to the deal, as California has encouraged them to do, it would render Mr. Trump’s rollback moot. 
Last week, Mr. Wheeler sent a pair of highly unusual letters to Sacramento. One noted that California has the nation’s largest backlog of incomplete or inactive state-level plans to address certain types of air pollution, and threatened to impose penalties such as withholding highway funds if the backlog is not addressed. While many other states have similar backlogs, none have received such letters, according to Miles Keough, head of the National Association of Clean Air Agencies. 
The second letter accused the state of failing in its obligations to meet clean water standards, accusing it of “deficiencies that have led to public health concerns.” Again the E.P.A. issued a veiled threat that federal funding could be at risk. 
But data on the E.P.A.’s own website indicates that at least 40 states have a higher percentage of water systems in violation of the Safe Drinking Water Act than California.
Keith Ellison, the attorney general of Minnesota, said he saw in Mr. Wheeler’s letters an implicit threat to any state at odds with Mr. Trump’s deregulatory agenda. “Those letters just look like rank retaliation, punishment,” Mr. Ellison said. “It’s the most abusive approach to states’ rights that I’ve ever seen.”
The site removed a video posted by President Trump that showed a meme of the rock band’s lead singer, edited as an attack on Joe Biden. 
In a tweet on Wednesday, President Trump addressed his social media followers with four words, all caps: “LOOK AT THIS PHOTOGRAPH!”
Under that was a video showing Chad Kroeger, the lead singer of the Canadian postgrunge rock band Nickelback, holding a framed picture of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., his son Hunter Biden and an American businessman.
The video, which Twitter had removed by Thursday morning, is from the music video for “Photograph,” a 2005 Nickelback single. 
In the song’s original video, Mr. Kroeger holds up an old picture of himself and a friend as he sings: “Look at this photograph/Every time I do it makes me laugh/How did our eyes get so red?/And what the hell is on Joey’s head?”
Mr. Trump used an altered version of that footage, and he was far from the first to do so. The Nickelback meme is more than a decade old, and you can find multiple versions online: video clips or still photos of Mr. Kroeger holding up his photograph, with a funny or absurd picture edited into his frame.
(Part of the joke is that a lot of people don’t like Nickelback. The band is known for inspiring some pretty vigorous contempt, in spite of — and also because of — its history of filling stadiums and generating a steady stream of megahit singles that were inescapable on radio stations during the 2000s.)
In the video shared by Mr. Trump, the inserted photograph showed Joe Biden and Hunter Biden holding golf clubs. And as Fox News had reported on Tuesday, the man at far left was Devon Archer, who served with Hunter Biden on the board of Burisma Holdings, a Ukrainian natural gas company. In Mr. Trump’s video, that photograph was juxtaposed with a clip of Mr. Biden saying, “I have never spoken to my son about his overseas business dealings.”
But by Thursday morning, the video in Mr. Trump’s tweet was not there. In its place was a message saying that the video had been removed in response to a report from the copyright owner.
The president’s tweet was in line with his recent attempts to deflect attention from the controversies surrounding revelations that he pressed Ukraine’s leader to investigate Mr. Biden, a leading candidate in the Democratic presidential primary.
Mr. Trump has accused Mr. Biden of trying to help Burisma by pushing for the ouster of a Ukrainian prosecutor. As The New York Times reported this spring, no evidence has surfaced that the former vice president intentionally tried to help his son by pressing for the prosecutor’s dismissal. 
An impeachment inquiry against the president was announced on Sept. 24. Since then, Mr. Trump has promoted conspiratorial messages that suggest an impeachment would amount to a coup or could cause a “Civil War like fracture.”
Some critics of Mr. Trump have called on Twitter to take stronger action to rein in language that could be seen as bullying, dog-whistling or inciting violence — even if it comes from a sitting president.
But the removal of the president’s “Photograph” clip was about copyrights, not content.
It is unclear whether Nickelback members were involved; representatives of the band and of Mr. Kroeger did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Thursday. But an entry in Lumen, an independent database at the Berkman Klein Center for Internet & Society at Harvard, shows that the record label company Warner Music Group alerted Twitter to the copyright infringement on Wednesday.
As a result of that notice, Twitter confirmed, the video Mr. Trump had shared was taken down. Warner Music Group declined to comment. 
This has happened before. In February, Mr. Trump shared a video on Twitter that included a song by the rock band R.E.M. The group tweeted its disapproval, and the video in Mr. Trump’s tweet was removed. In April, another tweet from the president featured music from the movie “The Dark Knight Rises”; that, too, was reportedly removed because it had been unauthorized.
Jennifer Grygiel, a social media expert and assistant professor of communications at Syracuse University, said the president’s use of memes to reach his supporters directly was worthy of examination. 
“The president is a pro memer, and the way he uses social media needs to be taken seriously,” they said. “A Nickelback meme is bizarre, to say the least, but it’s effective when it comes to its propaganda properties.”
Doyle Canning, a Democratic congressional candidate in Oregon who wrote a book on memes and political movements, said that tweets like these drew attention away from more important issues.
“Trump is using Twitter, and then this controversy, to amplify this story rather than the story about his impending impeachment,” she said. “And so the pile-on and the echo effect that you see around Trump’s tweets distract, I think, from a real constitutional crisis in the country.”
And he has only himself to blame.
When he isn’t raving about how the deep state is conspiring against him, Donald Trump loves to boast about the economy, claiming to have achieved unprecedented things. As it happens, none of his claims are true. While both G.D.P. and employment have registered solid growth, the Trump economy simply seems to have continued a long expansion that began under Barack Obama. In fact, someone who looked only at the past 10 years of data would never guess that an election had taken place.
But now it’s starting to look as if Trump really will achieve something unique: He may well be the first president of modern times to preside over a slump that can be directly attributed to his own policies, rather than bad luck.
There has always been a deep unfairness about the relationship between economics and politics: Presidents get both credit and blame for events that usually have little to do with their actions. Jimmy Carter didn’t cause the stagflation that put Ronald Reagan in the White House; George H.W. Bush didn’t cause the economic weakness that elected Bill Clinton; even George W. Bush bears at most tangential responsibility for the 2008 financial crisis.
More recently, the “mini-recession” of 2015-16, a slump in manufacturing that may have tipped the scale to Trump, was caused mainly by a plunge in energy prices rather than any of Barack Obama’s policies.
Now the U.S. economy is going through another partial slump. Once again, manufacturing is contracting. Agriculture is also taking a severe hit, as is shipping. Overall output and employment are still growing, but around a fifth of the economy is effectively in recession.
But unlike previous presidents, who were just unlucky to preside over slumps, Trump has done this to himself, largely by choosing to wage a trade war he insisted would be “good, and easy to win.”
The link between the trade war and agriculture’s woes is obvious: America’s farmers are deeply dependent on export markets, China in particular. So they’re hurting badly, despite a huge financial bailout that is already more than twice as big as the Obama administration’s auto bailout. (Part of the problem may be that the bailout money is flowing disproportionately to the biggest, richest farms.)
Shipping may also seem an obvious victim when tariffs reduce international trade, although it’s not just an international issue; domestic trucking is also in recession.
The manufacturing slump is more surprising. After all, America runs a large trade deficit in manufactured goods, so you might expect that tariffs, by forcing buyers to turn to domestic suppliers, would be good for the sector. That’s surely what Trump and his advisers thought would happen.
But that’s not how it has worked out. Instead, the trade war has clearly hurt U.S. manufacturing. Indeed, it has done considerably more damage than even Trump critics like yours truly expected.
[For an even deeper look at what’s on Paul Krugman’s mind, sign up for his weekly newsletter.]
The Trumpist trade warriors, it turns out, missed two key points. First, many U.S. manufacturers depend heavily on imported parts and other inputs; the trade war is disrupting their supply chains. Second, Trump’s trade policy isn’t just protectionist, it’s erratic, creating vast uncertainty for businesses both here and abroad. And businesses are responding to that uncertainty by putting plans for investment and job creation on hold.
So the tweeter in chief has bungled his way into a Trump slump, even if it isn’t a full-blown recession, at least so far. It’s clearly going to hurt him politically, notably because of the contrast between his big talk and not-so-great reality. Also, the pain in manufacturing seems to be falling especially hard on those swing states Trump took by tiny margins in 2016, giving him the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote.
And while many presidents have found themselves confronting politically damaging economic adversity, Trump is, as I said, unique in that he really did this to himself.
Of course, that doesn’t mean that he will accept responsibility for his mistakes. For the past few months he has been trying to portray the Federal Reserve as the root of all economic evil, even though current interest rates are well below those his own officials predicted in their triumphalist economic projections.
My guess, however, is that Fed-bashing will prove ineffective as a political strategy, not least because most Americans probably have at best a vague idea of what the Fed is and what it does.
So what will come next? Trump being Trump, it’s a good bet that he’ll soon be denouncing troubling economic data as fake news; I wouldn’t be surprised to see political pressure on the statistical agencies to report better numbers. Hey, if it can happen to the National Weather Service, why not the Bureau of Economic Analysis (which reports, by the way, to Wilbur Ross)?
And somehow or other this will turn out to be another deep-state conspiracy, probably orchestrated by George Soros.
The scary thing is that around 35 percent of Americans will probably believe whatever excuses Trump comes up with. But that won’t be enough to save him.
(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) 
Good evening. Here’s the latest.
1. President Trump openly called on China to investigate former Vice President Joe Biden.
The extraordinary request mirrored the one he made privately to the Ukrainian president and served as an open challenge to the Democrats investigating it as an abuse of power.This time, Mr. Trump referred to a business deal between Mr. Biden’s son Hunter and a fund that involved the state-owned Bank of China. 
Tonight, The Times learned that two of President Trump’s top envoys to Ukraine drafted a statement for the country’s new president in August that would have committed Ukraine to pursuing investigations into Mr. Trump’s political rivals. The effort is more evidence that Mr. Trump’s fixation with Ukraine drove senior diplomats to bend U.S. foreign policy to the president’s political agenda.
And we also untangled the false conspiracy theory — involving Democrats, the 2016 election and hackers — that Mr. Trump raised in his call to Ukraine. 
2. The Justice Department will press Facebook to create a so-called back door to its end-to-end encryption on WhatsApp and other messaging platforms.
Our reporters reviewed a copy of a letter that Attorney General William Barr and his British and Australian counterparts are expected to send to Mark Zuckerberg on Friday, which argues that law enforcement needs a way past encryption to fight terrorism, international organized crime and child exploitation in pornography. But that power could also be used against whistle-blowers, journalists and others. 
Facebook was also the focus at Europe’s top court, which ruled that individual countries can order the social media company to take down posts, photographs and videos, and restrict global access to that material. The ruling has implications for privacy laws around the world. 
In tonight’s Debatable from Opinion: Is it time to break up Facebook? 
3. President Trump’s feud with California is having a chilling effect on more than a dozen other states.
The administration’s move last month to revoke California’s authority to set its own emissions standards also stripped that power from 13 states that follow California’s standards, including Pennsylvania, above. The administration also ensured that no state could set its own standards in the future.
In an Op-Ed, forest experts write that trees are some of the best allies in solving the climate crisis, and harvested sustainably, should be used to build tall buildings.
Separately, the Trump administration just made dinner more expensive. A 15-year fight over airplane subsidies is going to raise the cost of Parmesan cheese, French wine and Scotch whisky. Here’s how it will affect your grocery list.
4. MGM Resorts has agreed to pay up to $800 million to victims of the Las Vegas shooting in 2017. 
The settlement would resolve claims that MGM was negligent in allowing the killer to stockpile weapons and ammunition at its Mandalay Bay hotel.
The company had first responded with an aggressive legal strategy, arguing that it was shielded from liability by a little-known federal law passed after the Sept. 11 attacks, under which the mass shooting qualified as an “act of terrorism.”
5. “I didn’t want a yearbook. I wanted to erase everything.”
That was a teenager in upstate New York who was raped by a classmate before her senior year of high school. Her attacker, who pleaded guilty to third-degree rape, was allowed to remain in school. 
The case jolted their working-class town and prompted a walkout by students. 
Education experts say that thousands of secondary schools across the country appear to be far less prepared to handle such cases than their higher education counterparts.
6. Most Americans think of themselves as middle class. But the line between a stable life and a fragile one is thinning.
We asked four families from across the country to share their monthly budgets with us to help illustrate how middle-class life has fundamentally shifted. 
And what about stay-at-home parents? Paying them to take care of their children is an old idea that’s getting a new airing, from both sides of the political aisle.
7. The new “Joker” movie opens tonight amid fierce debate.
Joaquin Phoenix’s version of the DC Comics villain shares the psychological traits of real-life mass shooters. Some — even within Warner Bros. — worry that the R-rated film’s violent hyper-realism might legitimize rather than critique the pathway to atrocity. 
In a statement, Warner Bros. said, “It is not the intention of the film, the filmmakers or the studio to hold this character up as a hero.”
Our critic says the film itself is not interesting enough to argue about, calling it “an empty, foggy exercise in secondhand style and second-rate philosophizing.” Here’s his full review. 
8. The new Museum of Modern Art in New York City is here. Get ready for a change.
The expanded museum reopens later this month after three years of piecemeal renovations, a $450 million overhaul and a rethinking of displays. Visitors will experience a much bigger space, rotating galleries and a more global collection, with Picasso and Monet next to more recent, diverse artists. Here’s how dozens of curators transformed 60 galleries.
Also out of New York: Starting today, cars are no longer welcome on 14th Street, a major crosstown route for 21,000 vehicles a day. Bus commuters rejoiced; drivers, not so much.
9. Ever wonder what life would be like without men? On one tiny Baltic island, it’s business as usual.
The Estonian island of Kihnu is run by women. After men began to fade from everyday life in the 19th century, drawn away by the need to hunt and fish, the women stepped in. But Kihnu’s way of life is threatened by a dwindling population, and the island is looking to cultural tourism for its survival.
And next week, roughly 100 women will compete in the off-road Rebelle Rally in California and Nevada. 
One former driver summed it up: “Imagine summer camp for off-roading die-hards, where every day you drive an insane obstacle course and every night you camp around a fire hearing stories from the most hard-core women you envision.”
10. And finally, sourdough. It takes time to make, but yes, you can do it. 
We walk you through all the key steps and concepts a first-time sourdough baker needs to bake naturally leavened bread at home with great results. Have patience, your first loaves won't be perfect, but they will be delicious. 
Melissa Clark writes about the beauty of corn muffins (which are great for breakfast) and Sam Sifton on the secret to poundcake (a breakfast food in our book).
Bon appétit!
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European, African or American morning.
Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.
What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
A sharply worded letter argued that President Trump is trying to run out the clock on an investigation of him and his family business. 
The Manhattan district attorney’s office on Thursday accused President Trump of trying to run out the clock on its investigation of him and his family business, saying the president was seeking “as much delay as possible” to avoid turning over his tax returns as part of the inquiry.
The district attorney’s office issued a subpoena to Mr. Trump’s accounting firm in August seeking eight years of his personal and corporate tax returns as it investigates hush-money payments the president and his company made to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels.
In a sharply worded letter filed in Manhattan federal court, the office said that a federal lawsuit the president brought last month challenging the subpoena could drag out the case until the statute of limitations expired on any possible crimes. 
“The only goal in this litigation,” prosecutors with the district attorney’s office wrote, “is to obtain as much delay as possible, through litigation, stays and appeals.” 
A lawyer for Mr. Trump did not respond to a request for comment. 
Mr. Trump’s lawsuit argued that the Constitution bars any investigation of a sitting president, especially by a local prosecutor. The argument has never been tested in court and could set a sweeping new precedent if the president is successful. 
Lawyers for the president also have called the investigation by the Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr., politically motivated. Mr. Vance is a Democrat. 
Mr. Vance’s office was responding to a letter filed on Wednesday by the Justice Department supporting a request from Mr. Trump, a Republican, that the judge in the case temporarily block the subpoena. Lawyers for the Justice Department, which is led by Attorney General William P. Barr, said the president had raised “significant constitutional issues” that should first be carefully considered by the court. 
The Justice Department did not offer an opinion about the merits of Mr. Trump’s argument. 
But the letter from Mr. Vance’s office indicated that the state prosecutors interpreted the Justice Department’s involvement as support for the president’s “extravagant claim that, given his current position, he and all of his prior business associates and related companies are immune, not just from prosecution, but from any routine grand jury inquiry into transactions undertaken before he was a government employee.”
It is an open question whether sitting presidents are immune from prosecution while in office. Federal prosecutors are barred from charging a sitting president with a crime because the Justice Department has decided that presidents have temporary immunity while they are in office.
But that position does not preclude an investigation. Presidents, including Mr. Trump, have been the subjects of federal criminal investigations while in office. The Justice Department’s position also does not apply to local prosecutors like the Manhattan district attorney.
Mr. Vance’s office has been examining whether any New York State laws were broken when Mr. Trump and his company reimbursed Michael D. Cohen, the president’s former lawyer and fixer, for payments he made to Ms. Daniels just before the 2016 election. Ms. Daniels claimed she had an affair with the president, which he has denied. 
The letter from Mr. Vance’s office said the Justice Department’s position was “audacious” because Manhattan federal prosecutors had investigated the same reimbursements. 
Federal prosecutors disclosed in July that they had “effectively concluded” their investigation, which had led Mr. Cohen to plead guilty to federal campaign finance violations. He was sentenced to three years in prison.
The district attorney’s subpoena, served on Mr. Trump’s accounting firm, Mazars USA, seeks his personal and corporate tax returns dating to 2011. The president and his lawyers have vigorously fought efforts by congressional Democrats and state legislatures to force him to disclose his tax returns. 
Mr. Vance’s office argued that delaying enforcement of the subpoena would likely mean that the statute of limitations would expire on some of the actions that a grand jury is examining. The letter did not disclose any additional details about the inquiry. 
Why the president’s Twitter account is the closest thing to a coordinated response to the impeachment inquiry.
Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.
Richard Nixon had “impeachment diplomacy.” Bill Clinton had his war room, stocked with lawyers and spin doctors. And President Trump has … his twitter account? 
As House Democrats march forward with their impeachment inquiry, the Trump administration is offering, well, very little.
As my colleagues reported in the paper today, there’s no organized response coming from the White House. No team enforcing message discipline. No fleet of supporters descending on cable news to recite The Official Talking Points. It’s not even clear who — if anyone — is heading up the effort. (Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, spent part of last Sunday playing golf.)
“We have stated this several times,” the White House press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, said in an email. “There has not been any effort to put together a war room. The president did nothing wrong.”
This non-approach stems from the top. Since Mr. Trump came to Washington, there has been one messenger-in-chief for this White House — and no one can accuse him of under-communicating.
Over the past three days, Mr. Trump has tweeted a seemingly endless stream of media criticism, insults and, yes, even curses. His 40-minute news conference Wednesday was a combative tour de force, careening between grievances, boasts and heckling.
It’s important to remember that a fair amount of Mr. Trump’s impeachment crisis is of his own making. After escaping serious political fallout from the Mueller investigation, he asked the Ukrainian president to investigate Joe Biden and his son. Then, he agreed to release the reconstructed transcript of the call where he made the request, giving Democrats the ammunition they needed to push their impeachment inquiry forward.
Today, he doubled down, publicly calling on another foreign power — China — to examine Mr. Biden and his family.
That solo approach has worked for Mr. Trump in the past. As my colleague Peter Baker points out, saying the thing that enrages his critics — but doing it in public view — has seemed to prompt less blowback than if he’d said it in private.
But impeachment, even in this early stage, has already proven to be something showstopping in a capital grown accustomed to the extraordinary: a true breakout moment, one that’s overtaken not just the White House but also Congress, the presidential campaign, the news media and a large swath of the federal government.
We don’t know whether Mr. Trump’s one-man show will hold up under this kind of intense pressure. 
What we do know is that the White House is making a fairly risky political bet with this decentralized strategy. 
In the midst of the biggest crisis for his presidency, Mr. Trump and his team are simply assuming that his supporters will stick by him, no matter what he does. Some Trump allies even argue that impeachment could bolster his re-election bid, by motivating his base to support him against the Washington “swamp.” 
And if Trump supporters stay by his side, they argue, so will Senate Republicans. Those are, of course, the votes that matter most in this whole situation. (Assuming all Senate Democrats support removal from office, it would take support from at least 20 Republicans to oust the president.)
So far, Mr. Trump’s supporters have largely been proven correct. But they may be misunderstanding the silence from elected Republicans.
Privately, Republicans say they’re anxious about defending the president when they don’t know what might be coming next — and they aren’t receiving any real guidance from the White House. 
With most Republican lawmakers back in their districts for the congressional recess, they’ve stayed out of the press, a position that will get harder to maintain once they’re back in Washington.
We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.
Senator Bernie Sanders, 78, is recovering nicely from his heart operation, according to his wife, Jane, and expects to participate in the next Democratic debate later this month.
But his trip to the hospital this week set off a fierce debate over how old, exactly, is too old to be president. As I wrote in today’s paper, it’s a question that taps straight into the anxieties of a country where, in 2020, the highest share of the electorate will be older than 65. 
Mr. Sanders is one of a trio of septuagenarians topping the Democratic primary field. Mr. Biden, 76, Senator Elizabeth Warren, 70, and Mr. Sanders have consistently led in the contest to face Mr. Trump, 73, next year.
Here’s what some of our readers had to say about age and the presidency: 
“As a person who had triple bypass surgery and more than two decades later having three stents being inserted, I would like to give one advice to the senator,” offered Cemal Ekin of Warwick, R.I. “You need to pace yourself and take rests.”
Sheldon Bunin of Jackson Heights, N.Y., said he was a trial lawyer in New York for 40 years. “As I approached 70 I realized I was past my prime and before I started losing cases and losing words and did not think as fast as I once did and was time to retire,” he said. “Bernie let me assure you that the year between 78 and 79 will be worse than 77 to 78.”
“Turn the hard work over to Liz,” he added.
“I too suffered from chest discomfort about five years ago and had two stents inserted,” said Bob Ackerman of Detroit. “Now I lift weights, complete metric century bike rides and consider myself a reasonably fit 68-year-old.”
“While I lean toward Klobuchar or Booker,” he said, “Senator Sanders has put important issues into play and deserves serious attention. Please pace yourself, Bernie.”
The peach emoji’s journey from butt crack to symbol of impeachment. (Spoiler, Lizzo is involved.)
Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.
Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.
Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.
An imagined conversation with Flyover Man.
Urban Guy: I hope you read the rough transcript of that Trump phone call with the Ukrainian president. Trump clearly used public power to ask a foreign leader to dig up dirt on his political opponent. This is impeachable. I don’t see how you can deny the facts in front of your face.
Flyover Man: I haven’t really had time to look into it. There’s always some fight between Trump and the East Coast media. I guess I just try to stay focused on the big picture.
The big picture is this: We knew this guy was a snake when we signed up. But he was the only one who saw us. He was the only one who saw that the America we love is being transformed in front of our eyes. Good jobs for hard-working people were gone. Our communities in tatters. Our kids in trouble. I had one shot at change, so I made a deal with the devil, and you’d have made it, too.
Nothing in this impeachment mess makes me rethink this bargain. If people like you are unable to acknowledge my dignity and see my problems, I’ll stay with Trump.
[The big debates, distilled. This guide will put in context what people are saying about the pressing issues of the week. Sign up for our new newsletter, Debatable.]
U.G.: The big picture? The big picture is the U.S. Constitution. It’s no man is above the law. We can’t live in a country in which our leaders flagrantly commit high crimes and nothing happens.
F.M.: I get it. He said some stupid crap on a phone call. But are you going to undo my vote for that? I wouldn’t even rank this among the top 25 worst things he’s done, and I’m a supporter of his!
Listen, do you remember those months just after the election when people like you were briefly curious about people like me? You sent your reporters out on wild safaris into the hinterlands to interview Trump voters. You read “Hillbilly Elegy.” Back then it was fashionable to say that Trump is just a symptom of real problems in America. He’s the wrong answer to the right question.
It didn’t take you long to lose interest in all that. Now we’re just a block of concrete you call “his base.” Now, all you care about is Trump, not his supporters or the issues driving us. Your whole media is Trump-O-Centric.
U.G.: We became Trump-O-Centric because his daily outrages undermine norms, spread xenophobia, degrade public morality.
F.M.: You think that because you have the kind of jobs that allow you to follow Twitter all day. I don’t have that luxury. So all that passing nonsense seems far away. I have to deal with the actual realities of life. 
One, mass immigration is changing my town, region and state. Two, the cultural liberalism you preach but don’t practice is leading to the breakdown of families up and down my block. Children out of wedlock. Young men with no dad when they’re young and no wife in their life when they’re grown. Third, an Ivy League elite running government and the economy for itself and shutting out those of us who actually make things with our hands. Fourth, China is replacing us.
U.G.: I’m happy to talk about these big problems.
F.M.: Like hell you are. The media fixates on scandals because they’re easier to talk about than complex issues like why urban and rural America are drifting further apart. You wasted billions of hours speculating about the Mueller report, and now news about Adam Schiff overshadows everything else while my world burns. Let’s face it: Bashing Trump is the media’s business model. That’s what drives eyeballs and profit.
U.G.: We can’t have a productive conversation with Trump around. He lies with abandon. He slanders and insults. He pollutes the water near and far.
F.M.: We can’t have productive conversations if every time I open my mouth you call me a bigot. You may not realize this, but you have Trump supporters around you all the time. It’s just that we’ve learned to keep our mouths shut in your presence. The crushing climate of blue cultural privilege is too strangulating.
U.G.: O.K. I get it. You’re not the first person to spin the right-wing victim narrative in front of me. Why don’t we focus on impeachment? On rule of law.
F.M.: Fine. Bottom line: I would be open to impeachment if you cared about my problems. I’d be open if all those silent Republican dissenters in the Senate had given me some G.O.P. alternative candidate who speaks our language and addresses our issues. I’d be open if there was a moderate Democratic Party that I thought deserved a shot. But I only see Democrats who’d make everything worse: Open the border! Socialism! More power to Washington! You could have paid attention to the forces driving Trumpism, but you ignored us. 
So please don’t ask us to sign up for our own obliteration or support your impeachment. This is about identity and pride.
Here’s a confession. I used to think Trump was a jerk. Now, after three years of battle, I see him as my captain. He deserves my loyalty, thick and thin.
See ya’ in hell, brother.
WASHINGTON — Two of President Trump’s top envoys to Ukraine worked on a statement for the country’s new president in August that would have committed Ukraine to pursuing investigations sought by Mr. Trump into his political rivals, according to three people briefed on the effort and documents released Thursday night.
Their work on the statement is new evidence of how Mr. Trump’s fixation with conspiracy theories linked to Ukraine began driving senior diplomats to bend American foreign policy to the president’s political agenda in the weeks after a July 25 call between the two leaders.
[Read the text messages between U.S. and Ukrainian officials.]
The statement was worked on by Gordon D. Sondland, the United States ambassador to the European Union, and Kurt D. Volker, then the State Department’s special envoy to Ukraine, according to the documents and the three people who have been briefed on the statement. Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer and the de facto leader of a shadow campaign to push the Ukrainians to press ahead with investigations, provided the critical element of the language, Mr. Volker told House Democratic investigators on Thursday, a person familiar with his testimony said.
The Ukrainians never released the statement. But if they had, Mr. Trump’s aides would have effectively pressured a foreign government to give credence to allegations intended to undercut one of the Democratic Party’s leading 2020 presidential candidates — former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. — without leaving Mr. Trump’s fingerprints on it.
Mr. Volker spent Thursday on Capitol Hill being questioned by House investigators as Democrats pursued their impeachment inquiry into Mr. Trump’s actions.
Late Thursday, House Democrats released a series of texts between Mr. Volker, Mr. Sondland and Andriy Yermak, a top aide to the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky, that also showed that officials in both countries understood that Mr. Trump would not grant Mr. Zelensky an Oval Office meeting he was seeking until Ukraine agreed to make a public commitment to the investigations being sought by the American side.
The texts also showed the three men discussing language for the proposed statement. On the morning of Aug. 13, Mr. Volker sent Mr. Sondland language they wanted added to an earlier draft sent by the Ukrainians.
“We intend to initiate and complete a transparent and unbiased investigation of all available facts and episodes, including those involving Burisma and the 2016 U.S. elections, which in turn will prevent the recurrence of this problem in the future,” Mr. Volker said in what appears to be the language he was proposing.
Mr. Sondland quickly replied, “Perfect,” adding that they should send it along to an adviser to the Ukrainian president.
Four days later, Mr. Sondland texted Mr. Volker, asking if they still wanted the Ukrainian president “to give us an unequivocal draft” specifically citing the two issues that Mr. Trump has been focused on: Burisma, the Ukrainian energy company that had put Mr. Biden’s younger son, Hunter Biden, on its board, and Mr. Trump’s belief that Ukraine had interfered in the 2016 American elections to benefit Hillary Clinton.
Mr. Volker replied: “That’s the clear message so far …”
Under questioning on Capitol Hill, Mr. Volker told House Democratic investigators that the language including specific references to Burisma and the 2016 election had come from Mr. Giuliani, the person familiar with his testimony said.
Mr. Volker told the House investigators that the Ukrainians had earlier proposed language promising a statement on fighting corruption that did not specifically mention Burisma and 2016. When Mr. Giuliani was shown that original language, Mr. Volker told the House, he indicated to Mr. Volker that it was not sufficient and said the Ukrainians should be asked for specific public commitments to investigate Burisma and 2016.
By Mr. Volker’s account, according to the person familiar with his testimony, he was eventually told by Mr. Yermak that the Ukrainian government could not agree to the language being sought by Mr. Giuliani. Mr. Volker told Mr. Yermak that he was right, and the idea was dropped, according to the account Mr. Volker provided the House.
The idea behind the statement was to break the Ukrainians of their habit of promising American diplomats and leaders behind closed doors that they would look into matters and never follow through, the people briefed on it said. According to the account provided by Mr. Volker to the House, the idea of the Ukrainians providing a statement had originated with Mr. Giuliani in a conversation he had with Mr. Yermak.
It is unclear if the statement was delivered to Mr. Zelensky, but no statement was released publicly under his name. Around that time, the Ukrainian officials indicated to the Americans that they wanted to avoid becoming more deeply enmeshed in American politics.
The drafting of the statement, which came in the weeks after the July 25 phone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Zelensky, was an effort to pacify Mr. Trump and Mr. Giuliani and to normalize relations between the two countries as Ukraine faced continuing conflict with Russia. Mr. Sondland and Mr. Volker believed that Mr. Giuliani was “poisoning” Mr. Trump’s mind about Ukraine and that eliciting a public commitment from Mr. Zelensky to pursue the investigations would induce Mr. Trump to more fully support the new Ukrainian government, according to the people familiar with it.
The texts released by House Democrats late Thursday night corroborated this characterization.
In the hours before the July 25 phone call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Zelensky, Mr. Volker texted Mr. Yermak that he had “Heard from White House” that “we will nail down date” for the official Oval Office visit coveted by the Ukrainians, “assuming President Z convinces trump he will investigate” the claims that Ukrainian officials tried to sabotage Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign.
The topic of the investigations came up during the July call between Mr. Trump and Mr. Zelensky, and Mr. Zelensky appeared open during the conversation to Mr. Trump’s request that he coordinate with Attorney General William P. Barr and Mr. Giuliani. Within weeks Mr. Volker and Mr. Sondland were strategizing about the draft statement with Mr. Yermak.
The texts suggest that, after the presidential call, negotiations picked up about a statement that would mention the investigations and satisfy Mr. Trump.
On Aug. 10, Mr. Yermak expressed a willingness “to make this declaration and mention all these things,” but noted that, first, the Ukrainians wanted to receive “guarantees for future visit” to Washington. “Once we have a date, will call for a press briefing, announcing upcoming visit and outlining vision for the reboot of US-UKRAINE relationship, including among other things Burisma and election meddling in investigations,” Mr. Yermak texted.
Mr. Volker replied, “Sounds great!”
Mr. Giuliani said he was aware of the statement but that it was not written at his behest.
Mr. Giuliani said that the statement was being handled by Mr. Sondland and Mr. Volker, and that he was not sure if Mr. Trump was involved in it.
“I don’t have any information that would suggest that it was at his request, but I can’t tell you it wasn’t, either,” he said.
He said he believed that the statement was intended to be delivered as part of a series of announcements by Mr. Zelensky’s government about the confirmation of new prosecutors and other officials.
“He was supposed to do something, or say something, to assure everybody — meaning our people — that he was going to take serious action about corruption,” Mr. Giuliani said. “I know that the investigations — which would be the collusion, the Burisma investigation — would be included in it, but it would have been part of an overall statement about dealing with corruption in an aggressive way.”
The White House did not respond to a request for comment. Aides to Mr. Zelensky did not immediately respond to requests for comment sent in the overnight hours in Ukraine.
Despite Mr. Trump’s accusations of corruption on the part of the Bidens, no evidence has surfaced that the former vice president knowingly took any steps to help his son or the gas company that paid him as a board member.
Mr. Trump’s regular suggestions that Ukraine, rather than Russia, was responsible for the 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee have been thoroughly debunked. While some Ukrainian officials expressed opposition to Mr. Trump in 2016, claims by Mr. Trump and his former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, that documents released in Ukraine that year implicating Mr. Manafort in financial fraud were falsified or doctored have not been substantiated.
But Mr. Trump’s continued efforts to press Ukraine to investigate those matters have drawn in a growing number of his aides, including Mr. Volker, who stepped down last week at the State Department’s special envoy for Ukraine, and Mr. Sondland, who has taken an increasingly prominent role in dealing with Kiev.
Mr. Sondland, 62, made a fortune in hotels, and has been a prominent Republican donor and fund-raiser for years.
He backed out of his role as a host of a fund-raiser for Mr. Trump in 2016 citing Mr. Trump’s disparaging comments toward immigrants and the family of a slain Muslim American soldier.
But Mr. Sondland donated $1 million through his companies to the inaugural committee for Mr. Trump, who subsequently tapped Mr. Sondland last year to be United States ambassador to the European Union.
The role traditionally has not focused heavily on Ukraine, which is not part of the European Union, but Mr. Sondland increasingly worked to establish himself as a central figure in Ukraine policy, administration officials said.
Mr. Sondland came to be seen in the administration as more loyal to Mr. Trump than was Mr. Volker, an acolyte of Senator John McCain, an outspoken critic of the president.
Mr. Sondland told reporters last month that he saw Ukraine as among a handful of “low-hanging fruit” policy areas where the European Union could work together with Washington to improve relations.
Mr. Sondland raised some hackles at the State Department and in the National Security Council when he asked to be included in the United States delegation that attended Mr. Zelensky’s inauguration, according to people familiar with the events. Mr. Sondland attended an Oval Office meeting afterward with other members of the delegation — which also included Mr. Volker; the energy secretary, Rick Perry; and Senator Ron Johnson, Republican of Wisconsin — to brief Mr. Trump on the delegation’s impressions of Mr. Zelensky.
When the delegation praised Mr. Zelensky and urged Mr. Trump to fully support the new Ukrainian government, the president was dismissive. “They’re terrible people,” Mr. Trump said of Ukrainian politicians, according to people familiar with the meeting. “They’re all corrupt, and they tried to take me down.”
Mr. Sondland continued building a relationship with Mr. Zelensky, hosting him at a June dinner at the United States mission to the European Union in Brussels, and meeting him again in Kiev in July with Mr. Volker on the day after Mr. Trump’s phone call with Mr. Zelensky.
Now he wants China to investigate the Bidens and help his re-election bid. Give him this, he’s not subtle.
Federal law expressly states that it is illegal for “a person to solicit, accept, or receive” anything of value from a foreign national in connection with a United States election.
Yet there stood President Trump outside the White House on Thursday, openly soliciting help from a foreign government for his re-election prospects by declaring to the assembled press that “China should start an investigation into the Bidens.” This, of course, after Mr. Trump has already become subject to an impeachment inquiry after implicating himself in a scheme to seek foreign help for his campaign in a conversation with the Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelensky.
This might seem self-defeating — “self-impeaching,” even. A United States president urging a foreign government to investigate his political rival would seem to be flagrantly violating the law, along with American notions of fair play and decency. 
But this president is a master at what Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan called defining deviancy down. One baldfaced presidential lie, once exposed, is an outrage; a thousand such lies is a statistic. 
Mr. Trump and his defenders are increasingly taking the position that what he did in pressuring the Ukrainian president was no big deal — the responsible course of action, even. Ergo, the more governments that Mr. Trump urges to do the same thing, the more normal, if not public-spirited, such aberrant presidential behavior will seem. The cynical marketing calculation — Mr. Trump’s favorite form of math — would seem to be that, as with previous administration outrages, the news media will grow weary, the public will grow numb, the Democratic inquisitors will appear ineffectual. Mr. Trump is also, of course, seeking to drag former Vice President Joe Biden and his son, Hunter, down to his level and implicate them in the same kind of self-dealing that he and his own family stand accused of.
This might work. But it also might not. There is no historical precedent for a president demanding that a foreign government investigate another American politician. If Mr. Trump has evidence of possible corruption overseas, his counsel should relay it to the Department of Justice and let the F.B.I. do its job, in coordination with its foreign counterparts.
Instead, Mr. Trump used his telephone conversation with Mr. Zelensky to pressure him to do Mr. Trump a “favor” and consult with Rudy Giuliani, serving as Mr. Trump’s personal lawyer and unofficial envoy, and the attorney general, William Barr, about digging up dirt on the Bidens. At that time, the United States, under direct orders from the president, was withholding nearly $400 million in military aid appropriated by Congress to help Ukraine defend itself against Russian encroachment on its eastern border.
Much remains unknown about how the various dots do or do not connect. But basic facts of the Ukraine approach are not in dispute. Nor can there be much question about what Mr. Trump so publicly asked China to do. 
There is a certain twisted logic to the president’s approach. 
 Multiple Republican lawmakers have stepped forward to declare the July 25 phone call, as Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina put it, “a nothing (non-quid pro quo) burger.”
“I have zero problems with this phone call,” Mr. Graham said in a Sunday appearance on CBS’s “Face the Nation.” Among those hitting the same talking point have been Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin: “We all kind of looked at it and said, ‘There’s nothing here.’” And Senator James Risch of Idaho: “I saw nothing in the conversation that was inappropriate. We’re done here.” 
This represents a stark reversal of Republicans’ position during the special counsel’s investigation of Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election. In that case, Republican lawmakers said that it would be troubling if there was clear evidence of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. Now, their new position seems to be: There can’t be anything untoward going on here because the president is being so blatant about soliciting foreign help.
Indeed, Mr. Trump seems to be operating on the assumption that the more shameless his assault on democratic norms and laws, the more he can get away with. This is not how the system works, no matter how fervently Mr. Trump’s Republican defenders may wish it so.
Welcome to the Impeachment Briefing, a special edition of the Morning Briefing that explains the latest developments in the House impeachment inquiry against President Trump. Sign up here to get the briefing by email every weeknight.
I’m Noah Weiland, and I’m here to catch you up on the day’s news, along with insights from the Washington bureau, where I work, and the rest of the Times newsroom. 
In his decades-long public life, Mr. Trump has continually said things that shock (“Russia, if you’re listening …”). But today’s open request for China to investigate his political adversary still felt like new territory. I talked to my colleague Maggie Haberman, who has covered Mr. Trump for many years in New York and Washington, about the significance of his statements. 
Maggie, why would he just blurt out that he wants China to investigate the Bidens?
He clearly knows something a wise person once said to me, which is that the value of a secret is its ability to be disclosed. So he tries to move the window of acceptability by publicly doing the very thing he is accused of doing in private.
What is it about his circumstances that might encourage him to make a request like this out loud?
He has led a consequence-free life despite enormously self-destructive behaviors over time. The divorces were marriages he wanted out of. The bankruptcies impacted his lenders most, not him. All of his behavior in 2016 ended with him winning the presidency. And the Mueller obstruction inquiry ended with no definitive answer.
Does his request this morning remind you of anything? 
The period of time that is the most illuminating happened after the “Access Hollywood” tape came out. The next day, I wrote a story about Mr. Trump holed up at Trump Tower. He came downstairs sometime after 4 p.m. and went and immersed himself in a crowd of supporters who were outside on the street, and pumped his fist. The next day, he went to the debate in St. Louis and paraded Bill Clinton’s accusers in front of Hillary Clinton. It was the most savage thing I had ever seen anyone do in politics. And it underscored what Mr. Trump does when he is wounded.
WASHINGTON — An Internal Revenue Service whistle-blower filed a complaint alleging that senior Treasury officials tried to exert influence over the mandatory audit of President Trump’s tax returns, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The whistle-blower came forward to Congress in July with the complaint, which accuses political appointees in the Treasury Department of improperly involving themselves in the audit and putting pressure of some kind on senior officials in the I.R.S. Additional details about the specific allegations in the complaint remained unclear, including when the reported activity took place.
The allegation comes as Mr. Trump is locked in a legal battle with Congress, where House Democrats have sought to obtain six years’ worth of his personal and business tax returns. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has refused a congressional request to release the returns and Mr. Trump has declined to release them despite decades of precedent that presidents make their tax information public.
In August, Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, the Democratic chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, alerted Mr. Mnuchin to the existence of the whistle-blower, who he said put forth “credible allegations of ‘evidence of possible misconduct’ — specifically, potential ‘inappropriate efforts to influence’ the mandatory audit program.”
“This is a grave charge that appreciably heightens the committee’s concerns about the absence of appropriate safeguards as part of the mandatory audit program and whether statutory codification of such program or other remedial, legislative measures are warranted,” Mr. Neal wrote.
Mr. Mnuchin, in a letter of response to Mr. Neal on Aug. 13, said he referred the matter to the Treasury Department’s inspector general for tax administration. The Treasury Department declined to comment for this article. The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
The existence of the complaint received little attention after it came to light in August and has recently been overshadowed by a whistle-blower complaint involving a telephone call between Mr. Trump and the president of Ukraine. In that call, Mr. Trump called for Ukraine to investigate former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his son’s business in the country.
The person familiar with the complaint, who has not personally reviewed it but is aware of its contents, said it did not directly implicate Mr. Mnuchin.
The Washington Post reported earlier on Thursday that the complaint implicated at least one Treasury Department political appointee and interviewed the whistle-blower.
The Treasury secretary, who is one of Mr. Trump’s closest aides, has said House Democrats are attempting to weaponize the I.R.S. by trying to obtain the president’s returns, and his department has argued that the request for the returns lacks a legitimate legislative purpose. House Democrats have made the request on the basis that they want to review the mandatory audit process that the I.R.S. undertakes to examine presidential returns.
Evidence of political interference in the audit process could buttress the argument that Congress should have access to the president’s returns.
George Hartmann, a spokesman for Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Republican chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said, “We don’t discuss confidential whistle-blower communications, including whether they exist, unless a whistle-blower requests otherwise.”
Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee, said the complaint was cause for concern and warranted additional investigation.
“It would be negligent for the Finance Committee to fail to investigate a whistle-blower’s allegations of political interference in the presidential and vice-presidential audit process,” Mr. Wyden said in a statement. “A bipartisan committee effort to get to the bottom of this should have been started months ago.”
A spokesman for Mr. Neal declined to comment.
John A. Koskinen, who retired as I.R.S. commissioner in late 2017, said an attempt to intervene in the audit of any taxpayer would be highly inappropriate.
“It would be extraordinary for anybody outside the I.R.S., whether it be at Treasury or anywhere else, to get any outside information about an audit,” Mr. Koskinen said.
Mr. Koskinen said he never witnessed political interference relating to Mr. Trump’s returns while he was commissioner during the Trump administration.
He did note, however, that on one occasion Mr. Mnuchin asked him to make sure that the agency was doing everything possible to keep the president’s tax returns secure.
The vice president has risen to his boss’s defense at a moment of crisis that some Republicans fear could inflict lasting damage on them both.
WASHINGTON — He held firm when the “Access Hollywood” tape nearly ended President Trump’s 2016 campaign. He did not waver through even the most trying moments of the special counsel’s Russia investigation.
And once again, Vice President Mike Pence has risen to Mr. Trump’s defense at a moment of crisis that some Republicans fear could inflict lasting damage on them both. 
Amid questions about Mr. Pence’s role in the campaign of political pressure directed at Ukraine’s government that has become the subject of a House Democratic impeachment action against Mr. Trump, the vice president appeared before reporters in Arizona on Thursday and was all in.
Hours after Mr. Trump defiantly escalated the impeachment drama by openly urging China’s government to investigate the business dealings there of former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s son Hunter, Mr. Pence backed up his boss without apology, saying that Mr. Trump was making good on his campaign pledge to “drain the swamp.”
Mr. Pence also reiterated an earlier statement that the business Hunter Biden did in Ukraine while his father was overseeing the Obama administration’s policy toward the country was, as he put it on Thursday, “worth looking into.”
“The president made it very clear that he believes our other nations around the world should look into it as well,” Mr. Pence added. 
No evidence has emerged to indicate that the elder Mr. Biden sought to steer American foreign policy based on his son’s foreign business dealings, and Hunter Biden has not been accused of any legal wrongdoing. 
But Mr. Pence’s remarks further cemented his unlikely political bond with Mr. Trump, whose political style bears little relation to the vice president’s low-key Midwestern conservatism. It also reflected Mr. Pence’s apparent belief that he cannot afford to allow even a sliver of daylight to appear between himself and the president for fear of drawing Mr. Trump’s wrath and, potentially, that of core Republican voters. 
“Daylight is deadly. That’s why he did what he did today,” said Michael Feldman, a former adviser to Vice President Al Gore. “His job as vice president is to support the president politically, no matter what. Even when the president is setting fire to his presidency.”
Mr. Gore found himself in a similarly awkward position in 1998, when Congress impeached President Bill Clinton for lying under oath about his affair with a White House intern, Monica Lewinsky.
Mr. Gore, too, remained steadfastly loyal. But unlike Mr. Pence, he never publicly supported Mr. Clinton’s defenses of his own conduct.
David Kochel, an Iowa-based Republican strategist, said that in vigorously defending Mr. Trump, Mr. Pence was making the only move available to him. “No matter what comes out, the base is going to stick with Trump,” even if some Republican members of Congress do not. 
Mr. Kochel added that Mr. Pence “is going to be judged by” the president and “his fervent supporters on his loyalty to the president.” But he said there is little downside politically for Mr. Pence in demonstrating his loyalty during the impeachment fight.
 “Right now it’s framed as a partisan fight,” he said.
Still, in expressing criticism of his predecessor, Mr. Biden, Mr. Pence also seemed to underscore the quandary he faces in his proximity to a president bearing a large load of ethical and legal accusations.
“The simple fact is that, you know, when you hold the second-highest office in the land, it comes with unique responsibilities,” he said. “Not just to be above impropriety but to be above the appearance of impropriety.”
Mr. Pence, who was in Arizona meeting with Hispanic leaders when he talked to reporters, did not address questions about whether he had a role or knowledge of Mr. Trump’s efforts to press foreign governments to investigate the Bidens and the origins of the F.B.I.’s 2016 investigation into his campaign’s ties to Russia. 
According to the whistle-blower complaint accusing Mr. Trump of improperly pressuring Ukraine on those subjects, Mr. Pence planned to attend the May inauguration of Ukraine’s new president, Volodymyr Zelensky, but canceled his trip at the instruction of Mr. Trump, who was seeking to pressure the Ukrainian government to investigate the Bidens. But a source in Mr. Pence’s office said that no such trip had been planned.
And when Hurricane Dorian led Mr. Trump to cancel an early-September trip to Warsaw on which he was set to meet with Mr. Zelensky, Mr. Pence traveled in place of the president. While there, on Sept. 2, Mr. Pence denied to reporters that he had discussed the elder Mr. Biden with the Ukrainian leader. 
“The president asked me to meet with President Zelensky and to talk about the progress that he’s making on a broad range of areas,” Mr. Pence said. “And we did that.”
Mr. Pence did not directly respond to a question at the time about whether the Trump administration had held up $391 million in military aid for the country this summer in order to further pressure Mr. Zelensky’s government. Instead he cited Mr. Trump’s complaint that Europe has not done more to assist Ukraine, adding that “as President Trump had me make clear, we have great concerns about issues of corruption.”
By that time, Mr. Trump’s public remarks had already conflated well-established concerns about endemic corruption in Ukrainian society with his more personalized notion of corruption in the country — namely the alleged activities of the Bidens and unfounded theories that it was Ukraine’s government that meddled in the 2016 election, not Russia’s. 
Mr. Pence’s critics say that despite the vice president’s professions of ignorance about the core of Mr. Trump’s political agenda in Ukraine, he knew enough about the president’s mixing of foreign policy and politics to be implicated in any wrongdoing.
At the same time, Mr. Pence appears to have been almost willfully oblivious to Mr. Trump’s public obsession with Ukraine, the Bidens and conspiracy theories surrounding the 2016 election that have also been amplified in public by Mr. Trump’s lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
“What’s unique about Pence is that he just feels he had no political fortune left in America if Trump didn’t tap him,” said Douglas Brinkley, a presidential historian. “His game plan is never to lose not just Donald Trump, but Trumpians,” Mr. Brinkley said. 
“He doesn’t want to have any kind of backlash from the alt-right or conservative talk radio,” he added. “So all he does is megaphone Trump with the amplification lowered a few notches.”
But by defending Mr. Trump’s behavior to an extent that few other elected Republican officials did on Thursday, Mr. Pence may not only find himself drawn deeper into the impeachment morass, but also diverted from the message of economic growth and legislative action he has sought to promote as an antidote to the politics of the congressional inquiry.
While defending Mr. Trump’s call to investigate the Bidens on Thursday, Mr. Pence also stressed the president’s policy agenda, a theme his aides have also promoted during internal White House discussions about responding to the Democratic impeachment onslaught. 
“The people of this country want us to focus on issues that matter most to them,” Mr. Pence said. “These endless investigations should end in Washington, D.C., and Speaker Pelosi and the Democrats ought to be focusing on issues of security, of prosperity, infrastructure, the U.S.M.C.A., lowering drug prices.” 
